COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
1701 Towanda Ave.
PO Box 2100
Bloomington, IL 61702-2100
866-COUNTRY
countryfinancial.com
21908 (01-11/21)
June 18, 2024
Peter Cat
3414 S Marissa Dr
Tucson, AZ 85730-3103
Dear Peter Cat:
Thank you for choosing COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company® for your insurance needs. There
are many choices when it comes to insurance, and we’re proud you’ve chosen us. We want you to
know that COUNTRY Financial is a group of companies committed to providing you the best
insurance and financial services possible.
We’ve enclosed a packet of information which includes your new policy and Declarations page. You
should review this packet and keep it for your records.
If you have any questions, your representative will be happy to answer them.
Kent S Kallander
1317 W Northern Lights Blvd
Ste #12
Anchorage, AK 99503
(907) 563-1492
kent.kallander-TEST@countryfinancial.com
You can also contact client service at 866-COUNTRY (866-268-6879).
Welcome to COUNTRY Financial! We look forward to working with you.
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
Bloomington, IL
21908 (01-11/21)
Protection From the Unexpected
Hi Peter - Your home is more than an investment, it’s a key part of your life. And we appreciate the trust you’ve placed in us to
protect it. Here’s a quick snapshot of your policy information to help you understand the coverage you get as our client.
3414 S Marissa Dr
Tucson, AZ 85730-3103
Coverage dates: June 18, 2024 to June 18, 2025
Annual premium: $2,755.14
Protection for you
Additional living expense coverage Medical payments coverage Liability coverage
helps pay for expenses, such as hotel
stays, and food should your home
become unavailable.
helps pay medical expenses to others. provides protection for property damage
and injury to others.
Policy limit: $49,036 Policy limit: $10,000 Policy limit: $500,000
COUNTRY Financial® is the marketing name for the COUNTRY Financial family of affiliated companies (collectively, COUNTRY), which include COUNTRY Life Insurance Company®, COUNTRY Mutual Insurance
Company®, and their respective subsidiaries, located in Bloomington, Illinois.
Home insurance policies issued by COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®, Bloomington, IL.
22220 (00-01/24)
Dwelling coverage
protects your home, such as roof,
walls, floor, siding and windows.
Policy limit: $245,182
Auxiliary private
structures coverage
protects structures, such as detached
garages, sheds or fences.
Policy limit: $24,518
Personal property coverage
helps replace or repair items, such as clothing, appliances, furniture and electronics.
Policy limit: $183,887
Know the Value of Your
Homeowners Insurance Policy
All coverages are subject to the terms, conditions, limitations, and exclusions of your insurance policy.
What does your policy cover?
Insurance provides protection for your home from unexpected events, like fire or storm damage. These are some of the specific
events covered by your policy.
• Fire or Lightning • Vandalism and Malicious Mischief • Freezing
• Removal
• Windstorm or Hail
• Breakage of Glass or Safety Glazing
Material
• Sudden and Accidental Damage from
Artificially Generated Electrical Current
• Explosion • Falling Objects • Theft
• Riot or Civil Commotion • Weight of Ice, Snow or Sleet
• Aircraft • Volcanic Eruption
• Vehicles • Sudden and Accidental Tearing Apart
• Smoke • Accidental Discharge or Overflow
Your unique policy
Your deductible
A deductible is the amount you’re responsible for paying
following a claim.
• Policy Deductible: $2,000
What you save
With these discounts, you’re saving $1,203.75 each year!
Your loss settlement
This is how your property will be valued in case of a loss.
• Dwelling - Extended Replacement Cost- replacement
cost which pays up to 120% of your dwelling coverage
limit
• Personal Property - Actual Cash Value
Your customized protection
You selected these extra coverage options for your policy.
• Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain
Coverage Endorsement
• Earthquake Endorsement
• Child Care Endorsement
• Theft of Tools and Materials Endorsement
If you have any questions about your coverage, just reach out
to your rep and they’ll walk you through it.
Thank you for being a part of the COUNTRY Financial family!
22220 (00-01/24)
Kent S Kallander
Phone: (907) 563-1492
Email: kent.kallander-TEST@countryfinancial.com
COUNTRY Financial® is the marketing name for the COUNTRY Financial family of affiliated companies
(collectively, COUNTRY), which include COUNTRY Life Insurance Company®, COUNTRY
Mutual Insurance Company®, and their respective subsidiaries, located in Bloomington, Illinois.
Home insurance policies issued by COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®, Bloomington, IL.
0422-029PC
• Age Of Roof
• Claim Free
• Good Payer
• Preferred Payment
• Safe Heat
• Welcome
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
1701 Towanda Ave.
PO Box 2100
Bloomington, IL 61702-2100
866-COUNTRY
COUNTRYFinancial.com
21970 (00-06/24)
June 18, 2024
Peter Cat
Policy Number: P010639145
Insured Location: 3414 S Marissa Dr Tucson, AZ 85730-3103
Selected Dwelling Amount of Insurance: $245,182
Determining an amount of insurance for your home
We know the importance of ensuring you have the right level of protection for what is likely your largest asset.
Choosing an amount of coverage is an important decision and we’re here to help.
First, it’s important to know the difference between replacement cost and market value. Replacement cost is
the amount of money required to repair or replace your home, including costs like labor, materials, and fees.
Replacement cost does not include the cost of your land. Market value, on the other hand, is the price someone
would pay to purchase your home, including the land, in its current condition if it were placed on the market.
Market value considers things like location and the housing economy.
We use third-party software licensed to us to determine an estimated replacement cost to assist you in selecting
an amount of insurance for your home. The information used in this estimating tool was provided or validated
by you during the application process. The resulting replacement cost calculation from this tool is just an
estimate and actual replacement cost could be significantly more or less than the estimate.
Please review the following information for accuracy. If changes are needed, please contact your representative.
Replacement cost:
Amount of money
required to
repair/replace
home; includes
costs like labor,
materials, & fees;
doesn’t include cost
of land.
Year Built: 1983 Exterior Type: Wood Framing Market value:
Price someone
would pay to buy
home, including
land, in its current
condition if put on
market. Considers
things like location
& housing economy.
Square Footage: 1250 Garage Type: Attached/Built-In
Quality Grade: Standard Number of Bathrooms: 2
Number of Stories: 1 Roof Type: Architectural Composite
Shingle
Foundation Type: Concrete Slab ZIP Code: 85730-3103
Based on this information and other characteristics, your replacement cost estimate is: $245,182.
You’ve selected Replacement Cost as your dwelling loss settlement and $245,182 as your dwelling amount of
insurance.
Keep these things in mind when reviewing your estimate
· Selecting an amount of insurance for your home is ultimately your decision.
· You shouldn’t rely solely on our estimate as we make no representations as to the accuracy or reliability
of it or the inputs used to calculate it.
· Our estimate isn’t based on an inspection and does not guarantee an accurate or complete statement
of the full replacement cost of the building.
· We also recommend reviewing and updating the inputs underlying the estimate we’ve calculated.
· We have no duty to make any inspections, surveys, reports, or recommendations about the value or
replacement cost of your home and any such undertaking is for internal purposes.
· You shouldn’t use or rely upon the information contained in this letter for any other purpose, such as
for obtaining a home loan.
Important: This letter is for informational purposes only. It does not provide any coverages nor may it be interpreted to replace any
provision of your policy. For the exact terms of your coverage, please refer to your policy, including any applicable endorsements. If there is
a conflict between your policy and the information provided in this letter, your policy will apply.
21970 (00-06/24)
Questions?
Please contact your representative Kent S Kallander at (907) 563-1492 or call us at 866-COUNTRY (866-268-6879)
if you’d like to make changes to your coverage or have questions about the amount of insurance on your home.
Thank you for being a part of the COUNTRY Financial® family!
Sincerely,
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
Bloomington, IL
Homeowners Insurance Declarations
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
1701 Towanda Ave.
PO Box 2100
Bloomington, IL 61702-2100
866-COUNTRY
countryfinancial.com
23300 (02-11/21) Page 1 of 3 Ins. Office/ Representative
54001/05736
Policy Number: P010639145 Policy State: Arizona
Billing Account Number:
Policy Term:
Payment Plan:
Declarations Effective Date:
0004794310
12 Months
Annual
Jun 18, 2024
Policy Effective Date:
Policy Expiration Date:
Declarations Reason:
Jun 18, 2024
Jun 18, 2025 at 12:01
a.m. standard time at your
address
New Business
Peter Cat
3414 S Marissa Dr
Tucson, AZ 85730-3103
Total Premium: $2,755.14
This is not a bill, do not pay this amount. Any balance will
be included with your next billing notice.
Contact us. We’re here to help!
Your representative Online Client Support Call 866-COUNTRY
Kent S Kallander
(907) 563-1492
kent.kallander-TEST@countryfinancial.com
http://www.countryfinancial.com/kent.kallander
View your policy, bill
payment, claims, chat and
more!
countryfinancial.com
Call 866-268-6879 anytime for
claims assistance and
customer service.
Named Insured
Contact(s) Date of Birth Farm Bureau #
Peter Cat 06/10/1995
Policy Discounts Savings Amount $1,203.75
Age Of Roof, Claim Free, Good Payer, Preferred Payment, Safe Heat, Welcome
Policy Deductible
$2,000 (Applies separately to covered property at each location listed on the declarations damaged by an
occurrence. Different/additional deductibles may apply. Please refer to your policy.)
Location Insured – 3414 S Marissa Dr, Tucson, AZ, 85730-3103
Risk Characteristics
Year Built: 1983 Smart Home Equipped: No
Building Type: Single Family Detached Exterior Type: Wood Framing
Occupancy: Owner-Occupied Garage Type: Attached/Built-In
Number of Family Units: 1 Number of Garage Stalls: 2.0
Number of Occupants: 2 Detached Garage: None
P010639145
Peter Cat
23300 (02-11/21) Page 2 of 3 Ins. Office/ Representative
54001/05736
Construction Type: Siding-Cedar
(Clapboard)
Number of Detached Garage
Stalls:
None
Unique Construction: No Age of Roof: 7 years
Number of Stories: 1 Roof Shape: Gable
Square Footage: 1250 Roof Type: Architectural Composite
Shingle
Number of Bathrooms: 2 Solar Panels: No
Auxiliary Heat: Wood Fireplace Pool or Spa on Premises: No
Protective Devices: No
Limit Of Liability
Perils
Insured Against Premium
Liability Coverage - Personal & Premises $500,000 $136.36
Additional Insured Endorsement $7.07
Child Care Endorsement - 2 Children $121.87
Medical Payments Coverage - Each Person/Each Occurrence $10,000/$50,000 $21.22
Dwelling Coverage - Homeowners $245,182 2-19 $1,471.72
Loss Settlement Selection Form 4: Extended Replacement Cost Included
Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage
Endorsement
$25,000 $66.20
Earthquake Endorsement - Option 6 $628.90
Deductibles - 15%:
Dwelling Coverage - Homeowners - $36,777
Personal Property Coverage - $27,583
Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage - $7,355
Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage - $3,678
Personal Property Coverage $183,887 2-19 $153.58
Loss Settlement Selection Form 5: Actual Cash Value Included
Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage $24,518 2-19 Included
Loss Settlement Selection Form 4: Extended Replacement Cost Included
Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage $49,036 2-19 Included
Additional & Special Coverages Included
Theft of Tools and Materials Endorsement $30,000 $148.22
Location Premium: $2,755.14
Total Premium: $2,755.14
For a complete description of your coverages, perils insured against, and loss settlement selection(s), please refer to your
policy.
Please refer to coverage forms for the perils insured against and applicable loss settlement when not specifically listed above.
We’re looking out for you!
· Save more! Contact your representative to review all of our money saving discounts like the Multi-
Policy Discount.
· Make a Payment! COUNTRY Financial® offers many convenient options including online payment.
Go to countryfinancial.com and log in to MyCOUNTRY to learn more.
· Follow us on Facebook and Twitter! Find out what we’re doing in your community, tell us what’s on
your mind or get tips to help you achieve your goals. We’re here to talk whenever you need us.
P010639145
Peter Cat
23300 (02-11/21) Page 3 of 3 Ins. Office/ Representative
54001/05736
Other Interests
Additional Insured: Simple Business Policy Case
3414 S Marissa Dr
Tucson, AZ 85730-3103
Insured Item: Primary Residence: 3414 S Marissa Dr, Tucson, AZ 85730
Your Policy Documents
Your policy is available upon request and consists of these declarations pages, policy packet (including
schedules, forms, and addenda), application, and any endorsements. Please keep them together. This policy is
effective at 12:01 a.m. on the date shown or the time the policy/change was purchased/requested, whichever is
later. Additionally, your policy coverages and coverage limits listed above are subject to all terms, exclusions, and
conditions described in your policy.
General Policy Packet 21224AZ (02-01/24)
Liability Coverage - Personal & Premises 22200 (01-11/21)
Medical Payments Coverage 22202 (00-05/19)
Section 1 Policy Packet 22217AZ (01-11/21)
Dwelling Coverage - Homeowners 22203 (00-11/21)
Personal Property Coverage 22205 (00-05/19)
Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage 22206 (00-05/19)
Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage 22207 (00-11/21)
Additional & Special Coverages 22209AZ (00-05/19)
Section 2 Policy Packet 22218AZ (01-11/21)
Loss Settlement Selection Form 4: Extended Replacement Cost 22213 (00-11/21)
Loss Settlement Selection Form 5: Actual Cash Value 22214 (00-05/19)
Additional Insured Endorsement 20301 (00-05/19)
Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement 20312 (02-11/21)
Child Care Endorsement 20308 (00-05/19)
Earthquake Endorsement 20314 (00-05/19)
Theft of Tools and Materials Endorsement 20335 (00-11/21)
Important Notices
Loss Settlement Selection Form 4: Extended Replacement Cost - Subject to policy terms and provisions, this
coverage provides extended replacement cost coverage for an owner-occupied dwelling up to a maximum of
120% of the amount shown on the Declarations page (up to $294,218).
Please contact your representative if you have any questions or would like further explanation regarding
your policy coverages or the premium charged.
Jun 18, 2024
Company Representative Name Date Countersigned
Homeowners
Home Insurance Policy
21928 (01-11/21)
Thank you for choosing COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company® for your
insurance needs.
We know you have choices when it comes to insurance, and we’re proud you’ve chosen us.
We encourage you to carefully read all parts of your policy including: the Declarations page, the
General Policy Packet, your individual coverage forms, policy packets, loss settlement selection
forms, and all endorsements. If you have any questions, your representative will be happy to
answer them. You can also call our Client Service Center at 866-COUNTRY (866-268-6879).
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company is a stock corporation with a home office located at
1701 Towanda Avenue, Bloomington, IL, 61701.
Thank you again for choosing COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company. We truly value your
business.
• General Policy Packet
Table of Forms
General Definitions, Policy Agreement, & General Policy Conditions
• Section 1 Coverage Forms (if purchased)
Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises; Liability Coverage- Premises Only;
Medical Payments Coverage
• Section 1 Policy Packet (if purchased)
Section 1 Coverage Exclusions & Section 1 Coverage Conditions
• Section 2 Coverage Forms (if purchased)
Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners; Dwelling Coverage- Condominium; Personal
Property Coverage; Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage;
Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage; Structures Away from Residence
Premises Coverage; Scheduled Personal Property Coverage; Additional &
Special Coverages
• Section 2 Policy Packet (if purchased)
Loss Settlement, Perils Insured Against, Section 2 Coverage Exclusions, &
Section 2 Coverage Conditions
• Loss Settlement Selection Forms (if purchased or included)
• Endorsements (if purchased or included)
21928 (01-11/21)
21224AZ (02-01/24) 1
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
General Policy Packet
General Definitions (Includes Limitations)
The meaning given below will be applied when the word or phrase appears in italics anywhere in your policy
documents.
1. Actual cash value means the lesser of the following as determined by us:
a. Fair market value;
b. For property other than buildings and structures, the estimated cost to repair or replace the
damaged property using materials of like kind and quality, less depreciation; or
c. For buildings and/or structures, the estimated cost to actually and necessarily repair or replace
the damaged property using standard new construction materials of like kind and quality and
standard new construction techniques, less depreciation.
In determining depreciation, we will consider wear and tear, deterioration, obsolescence, age, physical
condition, and reduced market value of the property. The rate of depreciation shall be the same for both
labor and materials. We will not pay any cost to repair or replace the undamaged portion of covered
property for the purpose of matching the color, texture, or appearance of the replaced or repaired
property. Actual cash value does not include increased costs due to applicable building codes, laws, or
ordinances.
2. Aircraft liability, model or hobby aircraft liability, hovercraft liability, motor vehicle liability, and watercraft
liability, subject to the provisions in b. below, means any of the following:
a. Liability for bodily injury or property damage arising out of the:
i. Ownership of such vehicle or craft by an insured;
ii. Maintenance, occupancy, operation, use, loading, and/or unloading of such vehicle or
craft by any person;
iii. Entrustment of such vehicle or craft by an insured to any person;
iv. Failure to supervise or negligent supervision by an insured, of any person involving such
vehicle or craft; or
v. Vicarious liability, whether or not imposed by law, for the actions of any person, including
a minor involving such vehicle or craft.
b. For the purpose of this definition:
i. Aircraft means any contrivance used or designed for flight, except for model or hobby
aircraft;
ii. Hovercraft means a self-propelled motorized ground effect vehicle and includes, but is
not limited to, flare craft and air cushion vehicles;
iii. Watercraft means a craft principally designed to be propelled on or in water;
iv. Motor vehicle means a motor vehicle as defined in 10. below; and
v. Model or hobby aircraft means a model or hobby aircraft as defined in 9. below.
3. Bodily injury means physical injury to a person. Sickness, disease, or emotional distress that is not
caused by physical injury is not bodily injury.
4. Business means:
a. A trade, profession, or occupation engaged in on a full-time, part-time, or occasional basis; or
b. Any other activity engaged in for financial compensation, other compensation, or other
professional purposes, except the following:
i. Activities for which no insured receives more than $2,000 in total compensation for the 12
months before the occurrence;
ii. Providing home day care services for which no compensation is received, other than the
21224AZ (02-01/24) 2
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
mutual exchange of such services; or
iii. The rendering of home day care services to a relative of an insured.
5. Employee means an employee of an insured, or an employee leased to an insured by a labor leasing firm
under an agreement between an insured and the labor leasing firm, whose duties are other than those
performed by a residence employee.
6. Fungus means any type or form of fungus, including but not limited to, mold, mildew, mycotoxins, spores,
scents, or by-products produced or released by fungi.
7. Insured means:
a. You and residents of your household who are:
i. Your relatives; or
ii. Other persons under the age of 21 who are in your care or the care of your relative who
is a member of your household;
b. A student enrolled in school full time, as defined by the school, who was a resident of your
household before moving out to attend school, provided the student is under the age of:
i. 24 and your relative; or
ii. 21 and in your care or the care of a person described in a. i. above;
c. Under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and
Medical Payments Coverage:
i. With respect to animals, watercraft, or recreational motor vehicles to which this policy
applies, any person or organization legally responsible for these animals, watercraft, or
recreational motor vehicles that are owned by you or any person included in a. or b.
above. Insured does not mean a person or organization using or having custody of these
animals, watercraft, or recreational motor vehicles in the course of any business or
without consent of the owner; or
ii. With respect to a motor vehicle to which this policy applies:
1. Employees or residence employees while engaged in your employ or that of any
person included in a. or b. above;
2. Other persons using the vehicle on an insured location with your consent; or
3. A person while operating machinery with your permission in activities covered by
this policy;
d. Under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and
Medical Payments Coverage of this policy, the person or organization named on the
Declarations page as an Additional Insured. This definition of Additional Insured under paragraph
d. applies only to the ownership, maintenance, and/or use of the insured location. Coverage does
not apply to bodily injury to a residence employee arising out of or in the course of the residence
employee’s employment by the Additional Insured; or
e. If your Declarations page shows a Loss Payee payable under one or more of the coverages listed
below, the definition of insured includes that Loss Payee with respect to that coverage. If we
decide to cancel or not to renew this policy, that Loss Payee will be notified in writing.
i. Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners
ii. Dwelling Coverage- Condominium
iii. Personal Property Coverage
iv. Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage
v. Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage
vi. Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage
vii. Scheduled Personal Property Coverage
viii. Additional & Special Coverages
Throughout this policy, when the word “an” or “any” immediately precedes the word insured, the words
“an insured” or “any insured” mean one or more insureds.
21224AZ (02-01/24) 3
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
8. Insured location means:
a. The residence premises;
b. Under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and
Medical Payments Coverage only, the part of other premises, structures, and grounds used as
a residence; and
i. Which is shown on your Declarations page; or
ii. Which is acquired by you during the policy period for use as your principal residence;
c. Any premises used by you in connection with a premises described in a. and, under Liability
Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and Medical Payments
Coverage only, b. above;
d. Any part of premises not owned by an insured where an insured is temporarily residing;
e. Vacant land owned by or rented to an insured;
f. Land owned by or rented to an insured on which a one, two, or three family dwelling is being built
as a residence for an insured;
g. Individual or family cemetery plots or burial vaults of an insured;
h. Any part of a premises occasionally rented to an insured for other than business use; or
i. Any location shown on your Declarations page.
9. Model or hobby aircraft means any unmanned contrivance used or designed for flight that:
a. Has a gross aircraft weight of less than 55 pounds; and
b. Is not used or designed to carry persons or cargo.
10. Motor vehicle means:
a. A self-propelled land or amphibious vehicle; or
b. Under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and
Medical Payments Coverage only, any trailer or semi-trailer that is being carried on, towed by,
or hitched for towing by a vehicle described in a. above.
11. Policy means this document (titled General Policy Packet), coverage documents, applications for
insurance, your Declarations page, and any forms, schedules, addenda, and endorsements provided by
us.
12. Pollutants means any noise or any solid, semi-solid, liquid, gaseous, or thermal irritant or contaminant,
whether indoor or outdoor, including but not limited to smoke, vapor, soot, fumes, mist, acids, alkalis,
chemicals, biological and other etiological agents or materials, teratogenic, carcinogenic and mutagenic
materials, sewage, methane gas, manure, odor, dust, radiation in any form including but not limited to
electromagnetic or ionizing energy, and waste materials. Waste materials include, but are not limited to,
materials that are intended to be or have been recycled, reconditioned, or reclaimed.
13. Property damage means physical injury to or destruction of tangible property, including the resulting loss
of use of this property.
14. Recreational motor vehicle means any motorized land vehicle principally used off public roads, which is
not licensed nor required to be licensed for road use, including but not limited to, all-terrain vehicles or
other utility-type vehicles. A motor vehicle designed or used for racing is not considered a recreational
motor vehicle.
15. Replacement cost means, except under Scheduled Personal Property Coverage and Loss Settlement
Selection Form 6, the cost actually and necessarily incurred to repair or replace the damaged property
using standard new construction materials of like kind and quality and standard new construction
techniques. We will not pay the additional cost to repair, replace, or reproduce obsolete or antique
construction. We will not pay any cost to repair or replace the undamaged portion of covered property for
the purpose of matching the color, texture, or appearance of the replaced or repaired
property. Replacement cost does not include any increased cost due to applicable building codes, laws,
21224AZ (02-01/24) 4
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
or ordinances.
16. Residence employee means:
a. An employee of an insured, or an employee leased to an insured by a labor leasing firm under an
agreement between an insured and the labor leasing firm, whose duties are related to the
maintenance or use of the residence premises, including household or domestic services; or
b. One who performs duties similar to those described in a. above, in a different place not related to
the business of an insured.
A residence employee does not include a relative under age 18 residing in your household.
17. Residence premises means:
a. The one, two, or three family dwelling where you principally reside; or
b. That part of any other building where you principally reside;
which is at a Location Insured listed on your Declarations page.
Residence premises also includes grounds and appurtenant structures at that Location Insured.
18. We, us, and our mean the company named on your Declarations page.
19. You, your, and yourself mean the person(s) shown on your Declarations page as Named Insured and
the spouse(s) of the person(s) listed if a resident of the same household.
Policy Agreement
If you have paid the premiums and have complied with the policy provisions, we will provide the coverages that
you have purchased through us, which are shown on your Declarations page and explained in the attached
coverage forms. The coverages are subject to the exclusions, conditions, limits of liability, loss settlement
selections, perils insured against, and other terms of your policy, that you have purchased, which are shown on
your Declarations page that is in effect at the time of any loss, injury, or damage.
General Policy Conditions (Includes Limitations)
The following general conditions apply to this policy, including all forms and endorsements.
A. Policy Period
Policy period means the policy term shown on your Declarations page, commencing on the time and date
stated on your Declarations page.
Under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and Medical
Payments Coverage, this policy applies only to bodily injury or property damage that occurs during the
policy period.
Under Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, Personal Property
Coverage, Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage, Auxiliary Private Structures
Coverage, Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage, Scheduled Personal Property
Coverage, and Additional & Special Coverages, this policy applies only to loss that occurs during the
policy period.
B. Liberalization Clause
If we revise this policy to provide more coverage without charging additional premium, your policy will
automatically provide the additional coverage the day the revision is effective in your state.
C. Waiver or Change of Policy Provisions
A waiver or change of a provision of this policy must be in writing by us to be valid. Our request for an
appraisal or examination will not waive any of our rights.
D. Certificate of Insurance
Coverage provided by this policy when described in a certificate of insurance is not amended, altered, or
21224AZ (02-01/24) 5
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
extended by that certificate. If this policy, when described in a certificate of insurance, is cancelled during
its term, we will provide not less than 10 days’ notice to the certificate holder. Notice by regular mail to the
last known address will be sufficient compliance with this provision.
E. Cancellation
1. You may cancel this policy at any time by returning it to us or by letting us know in writing of the
date the cancellation is to take effect.
2. We may cancel this policy only for the reasons stated below by letting you know in writing of the
date the cancellation takes effect. This cancellation notice may be delivered to you, or mailed to
you at your mailing address shown on your Declarations page. Proof of mailing will be sufficient
proof of notice.
a. When you have not paid the premium, we may cancel at any time by letting you know
at least 10 days before the date cancellation takes effect.
b. When this policy has been in effect for less than 60 days and is not a renewal with us,
we may cancel for any reason by letting you know at least 10 days before the date the
cancellation takes effect.
c. When this policy has been in effect for 60 days or more, or at any time if it is a renewal
with us, we may cancel for:
i. Conviction of a named insured of a crime arising out of acts increasing the
hazard insured against;
ii. Acts or omissions by the insured constituting fraud or material misrepresentation
in obtaining the policy, continuing the policy, or pursuing a claim under the policy;
iii. Discovery of grossly negligent acts or omissions by an insured or the insured’s
representative increasing the hazard insured against;
iv. Substantial change in the risk assumed by us if the risk has changed
substantially since the policy was issued, except to the extent that we should
reasonably have foreseen the change or contemplated the risk in writing the
policy;
v. Determination by the director of insurance that continuation of the policy would
place us in violation of Arizona insurance laws;
vi. Failure of any insured to take reasonable steps to eliminate or reduce any
conditions in or on the insured premises which contributed to a loss in the past or
will increase the probability of future losses; or
vii. Any other valid cancellation reason permitted by Arizona law.
This can be done by letting you know at least 30 days before the date cancellation
takes effect.
d. When this policy is written for a period of more than one year, we may cancel for any
reason at the policy anniversary by letting you know at least 30 days before the date
the cancellation takes effect.
3. When this policy is cancelled, the paid premium for the period from the date of cancellation to the
expiration date will be refunded pro rata.
4. If the excess premium is not refunded with the notice of cancellation or when this policy is
returned to us, we will refund it within a reasonable time after the date cancellation takes effect.
F. Continuous Renewal Provision
Subject to our premiums, rules, and forms then in effect, this policy may be continued in force for each
successive policy term. The renewal premium must be paid by the due date. If the renewal premium is not
paid, coverage will cease on the coverage termination date. Payment received after the due date will be
considered a nonbinding application to reinstate the lapsed policy.
G. Nonrenewal
We may elect not to renew this policy. We may do so by mailing to you at your mailing address shown on
your Declarations page, written notice at least 30 days before the end of the policy period. Proof of
21224AZ (02-01/24) 6
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
mailing will be sufficient proof of notice.
If our nonrenewal is based on the condition of the premises, you will be given 30 days’ notice to remedy
the identified conditions. If the identified conditions are remedied, coverage will be renewed. If the
identified conditions are not remedied to our satisfaction, you will be given an additional 30 days, upon
payment of premium, to correct the defective conditions.
This provision will not apply and this policy will terminate:
1. At the end of the policy period, if you have agreed to nonrenewal and we have sent a notification
listing this reason; or
2. On the effective date of any other insurance policy, if you have accepted the other policy and it
was issued as a replacement for this insurance, and we have sent a notification listing this
reason.
H. Inspections and Surveys
We will be permitted to inspect your premises and property any time during the policy period. We are not
obligated to make inspections or surveys for your benefit. Any inspections or surveys we do perform are
for our underwriting and rating purposes. We do not provide services relating to your health or safety or
the health and safety of workers or the public.
I. Assignment
Assignment of this policy will not be valid unless we give our written consent.
J. Subrogation
An insured may waive in writing before a loss all rights of recovery against any person. If not waived, we
may require an assignment of rights of recovery for a loss to the extent that payment is made by us. If an
assignment is sought, an insured must sign and deliver all related papers and cooperate with us. If we
pay an insured, who is a victim of domestic violence, for a loss caused by an act of domestic violence, the
rights of that insured to recover damages from the perpetrator of the violence are transferred to us to the
extent of our payment. Following the loss, that insured may not waive such rights to recover against the
perpetrator of the domestic violence.
Subrogation does not apply to 2.C. Damage to Property of Others in Liability Coverage- Personal &
Premises and Liability Coverage- Premises Only.
K. Conformity to State Statutes
Any terms of this policy which are in conflict with the statutes of the state in which this policy is issued are
amended to conform to such statutes.
L. Death
If any person named on your Declarations page or their spouse, if a resident of the same household, dies,
the following apply:
1. We insure the legal representative of the deceased but only with respect to the premises and
property of the deceased covered under the policy at the time of death; and
2. Insured includes:
a. An insured who is a member of your household at the time of your death, but only while
a resident of the residence premises; and
b. With respect to your property, the person having proper temporary custody of the
property until appointment and qualification of a legal representative.
M. No Action Against Related Entities
Nothing in this policy gives any person, organization, corporation, or other entity any rights or causes of
action against any parent corporation, affiliate, or subsidiary of the company issuing this policy. No rights
are created or implied against any parent corporation, affiliate, or subsidiary of the company described on
21224AZ (02-01/24) 7
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
your Declarations page.
N. Customer Complaint Information
If you have a complaint regarding this policy, you may contact:
Customer Relations
P.O. Box 2100
Bloomington, Illinois 61702-2100
Telephone 1-866-268-6879
This policy is signed by the President and Secretary of the company, at Bloomington, Illinois and countersigned
on your Declarations page by an authorized representative of the company.
Brian Duncan
President
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
Jennifer L. Vance
Secretary
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
22200 (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Liability Coverage – Personal & Premises
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions section for this coverage.
To confirm you have Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, please refer to your current Declarations page.
Your Declarations page lists the coverages you have purchased and may list additional coverage-specific
information such as the Loss Settlement Selection Form, Perils Insured Against, and Limits of Liability you have
chosen for each coverage. However, please always refer to this form for complete details.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Definitions
All General Definitions in the General Policy Packet apply to your Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises
and related endorsements and forms. In addition:
1. Occurrence means an accident, including continuous or repeated exposure to substantially the same
general harmful conditions, which results, during the policy period, in:
a. Bodily injury; or
b. Property damage.
What is covered (includes limitations)
1. If you have purchased Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises and a claim is made or a suit is
brought against an insured for damages because of bodily injury or property damage caused by an
occurrence to which this coverage applies, we will:
a. Pay up to our Limit of Liability as stated on your Declarations page for the damages for which an
insured is legally liable. Damages include pre-judgment interest awarded against an insured; and
b. Provide a defense at our expense by counsel of our choice, even if the suit is groundless, false,
or fraudulent. We may investigate and/or settle any claim or suit that we decide is appropriate.
Our duty to settle and/or defend ends when our Limit of Liability for this occurrence has been
exhausted by payment of judgments or settlements.
2. We cover the following in addition to the Limits of Liability:
a. Claim Expenses (includes limitations)
With respect to suits for covered damages, we pay:
i. Expenses we incur and costs taxed against an insured in any suit we defend;
ii. Premiums on bonds required in a suit we defend, but not for bond amounts more than the
Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises Limit of Liability. We need not apply for or
furnish any bond;
iii. Reasonable expenses incurred by an insured at our request, including actual loss of
earnings (but not loss of other income) up to $250 per day, for assisting us in the
investigation or defense of a claim or suit;
iv. Post-judgment interest that accrues before we pay or tender, or deposit in court that part
of the judgment which is covered and does not exceed our Limit of Liability; and
v. Reasonable expenses incurred, other than loss of earnings, up to $250 per day for the
cost of defending a claim brought against an insured under a workers’ compensation law,
if it is finally determined the workers’ compensation law is not applicable.
b. Intentionally Left Blank
c. Damage To Property Of Others (includes limitations)
22200 (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 2
i. We will pay, at replacement cost, up to $1,500 per occurrence for property damage to
property of others caused by an insured or animals owned by or in the care of an insured.
ii. We do not cover property damage:
(a) To property covered elsewhere in this policy;
(b) Caused intentionally by an insured who is 13 years of age or older;
(c) To property owned or rented by an insured;
(d) To property owned by or rented to a tenant of an insured or a resident in your
household;
(e) Arising out of:
(1) A business engaged in by an insured;
(2) Any act or omission in connection with a premises owned, rented, or
controlled by an insured, other than the insured location; or
(3) The ownership, maintenance, occupancy, renting, loaning, entrustment,
operation, use, loading, and/or unloading of aircraft, model or hobby
aircraft, hovercraft, watercraft, or motor vehicles.
This exclusion, 2.c.ii.(e)(3), does not apply to a motor vehicle that: (a) is
a recreational motor vehicle; (b) is not owned by an insured; and (c) at
the time of the occurrence, is not required by law, or regulation issued by
a government agency, to have been registered for it to be used on public
roads or property; or
(f) Caused by wear and tear, latent defects (a defect not immediately apparent), or
inherent vice (the quality for self-deterioration or damage).
3. Special Limits of Liability
The special limit for each category shown below is the total limit for each occurrence for that category.
These special limits do not increase the Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises.
1. Dangerous Dogs, Aggressive Breeds, and Exotic Animals. The most we will pay per
occurrence for bodily injury or property damage arising out of a dangerous dog, dog of an
aggressive breed, or exotic animal that you, any insured, or any member of your household owns
or has in their care, custody, or control is $10,000.
For the purposes of this special limit of liability, a dangerous dog is any dog:
a. Trained or used as an attack or guard dog;
b. Previously deemed to be vicious, aggressive, or dangerous as defined by any state or
local law, regulation, or ordinance; or
c. That has a prior history of biting or vicious act that:
i. Resulted in death to a person;
ii. Required any type of professional medical treatment; or
iii. Was reported to any governmental agency.
For the purposes of this special limit of liability, aggressive breeds are:
a. Pit-bull;
b. Chow;
c. Rottweiler;
d. Doberman;
e. Akita;
f. Wolf;
g. Wolf-Dog;
h. Fila Brasilerio; or
i. Any hybrid of these breeds.
For the purposes of this special limit of liability, an exotic animal is a:
a. Non-domesticated feline;
22200 (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 3
b. Non-human primate;
c. Venomous or poisonous animal;
d. Caiman, alligator, or crocodile;
e. Bear;
f. Wolf;
g. Jackal;
h. Fox;
i. Snake;
j. Coyote; or
k. Any hybrid of these animals.
Exclusions
Your Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises is subject to the following Exclusions:
Please refer to the Section 1 Coverage Exclusions in the Section 1 Policy Packet for exclusions that apply to
your Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises.
The following Special Exclusion also applies to your Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises:
Additional Locations Insured
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of an insured location that is covered under this policy by
Liability Coverage- Premises Only.
Conditions- including limits
Your Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises is subject to the following Conditions:
Please refer to the General Policy Conditions in your General Policy Packet, and the Section 1 Coverage
Conditions in the Section 1 Policy Packet, for conditions that apply to your Liability Coverage- Personal &
Premises.
This form does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this form.
22202 (00-05/19) 1
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
Medical Payments Coverage
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions section for this coverage.
To confirm you have Medical Payments Coverage, please refer to your current Declarations page. Your
Declarations page lists the coverages you have purchased and may list additional coverage-specific information
such as the Loss Settlement Selection Form, Perils Insured Against, and Limits of Liability you have chosen for
each coverage. However, please always refer to this form for complete details.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Definitions
All General Definitions in the General Policy Packet apply to your Medical Payments Coverage and related
endorsements and forms. In addition:
1. Occurrence means an accident, including continuous or repeated exposure to substantially the same
general harmful conditions, which results, during the policy period, in:
a. Bodily injury; or
b. Property damage.
What is covered (includes limitations)
1. If you have purchased Medical Payments Coverage, we will pay the necessary medical expenses up to
the Limit of Liability stated on your Declarations page for services performed within two years from the
date of an occurrence causing bodily injury and submitted to us within three years from the date of the
occurrence. Medical expenses means reasonable charges for medical, surgical, X-ray, dental,
ambulance, hospital, professional nursing, prosthetic devices, and funeral services.
2. This coverage applies only:
a. To a person on the insured location with the permission of an insured; or
b. To a person off the insured location, if the bodily injury:
i. Arises out of a condition on the insured location or the ways immediately adjoining;
ii. Is caused by the activities of an insured;
iii. Is caused by a residence employee in the course of the employment; or
iv. Is caused by an animal owned by or in the care of an insured.
3. Special Limits of Liability
The special limit for each category shown below is the total limit for each occurrence for that category.
These special limits do not increase the Medical Payments Coverage Limits of Liability.
1. Dangerous Dogs, Aggressive Breeds, and Exotic Animals. The most we will pay per
occurrence for bodily injury or property damage arising out of a dangerous dog, dog of an
aggressive breed, or exotic animal that you, any insured, or any member of your household owns
or has in their care, custody, or control is $10,000.
For the purposes of this special limit of liability, a dangerous dog is any dog:
a. Trained or used as an attack or guard dog;
b. Previously deemed to be vicious, aggressive, or dangerous as defined by any state or
local law, regulation, or ordinance; or
c. That has a prior history of biting or vicious act that:
i. Resulted in death to a person;
22202 (00-05/19) 2
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
ii. Required any type of professional medical treatment; or
iii. Was reported to any governmental agency.
For the purposes of this special limit of liability, aggressive breeds are:
a. Pit-bull;
b. Chow;
c. Rottweiler;
d. Doberman;
e. Akita;
f. Wolf;
g. Wolf-Dog;
h. Fila Brasilerio; or
i. Any hybrid of these breeds.
For the purposes of this special limit of liability, an exotic animal is a:
a. Non-domesticated feline;
b. Non-human primate;
c. Venomous or poisonous animal;
d. Caiman, alligator, or crocodile;
e. Bear;
f. Wolf;
g. Jackal;
h. Fox;
i. Snake;
j. Coyote; or
k. Any hybrid of these animals.
4. This coverage does not apply to you or residents of your household except residence employees.
5. If Medical Payments Coverage is indented under Liability Coverage- Premises Only on your
Declarations page, What is covered item 2.b. above is deleted and Medical Payments Coverage does
not apply to any person off the insured location.
Exclusions
Your Medical Payments Coverage is subject to the following Exclusions:
Please refer to the Section 1 Coverage Exclusions in the Section 1 Policy Packet for exclusions that apply to
your Medical Payments Coverage.
Conditions- including limits
Your Medical Payments Coverage is subject to the following Conditions:
Please refer to the General Policy Conditions, and the Section 1 Coverage Conditions in the Section 1
Policy Packet, for conditions that apply to your Medical Payments Coverage.
This form does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this form.
22217AZ (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Section 1 Policy Packet
Section 1 Coverage Exclusions
If you have purchased Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, or
Medical Payments Coverage, the following exclusions apply to such coverages:
A. Motor Vehicle Liability
1. Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and Medical
Payments Coverage do not apply to any motor vehicle liability if, at the time and place of an
occurrence, the involved motor vehicle:
a. Is registered for use on public roads or property;
b. Is not registered for use on public roads or property, but such registration is required by
a law or regulation issued by a government agency for it to be used at the place of the
occurrence;
c. Is being:
i. Operated in, or practicing for, any prearranged, organized, or spontaneous race,
speed contest, or other competition;
ii. Rented to others;
iii. Used to carry persons or cargo for a charge;
iv. Used for any business purpose except for a motorized golf cart while on a golfing
facility; or
v. Used on a public road or public property, except this exclusion, A.1.c.v., does not
apply to liability arising from the use of lawnmowers or walk-behind snow blowers
by an insured away from the residence premises on public roads or public
property; or
d. Is insured on any other policy of insurance.
2. If exclusion A.1. does not apply, there is still no coverage for motor vehicle liability unless the
motor vehicle is:
a. In dead storage on an insured location;
b. Used solely to service an insured’s residence;
c. A lawnmower or walk-behind snow blower used by an insured away from the residence
premises and not otherwise excluded;
d. Designed to assist the handicapped and, at the time of an occurrence, it is:
i. Being used to assist a handicapped person;
ii. Parked on an insured location;
e. A recreational motor vehicle:
i. Not owned by an insured; or
ii. Owned by an insured provided the occurrence takes place on an insured location
as defined in General Definitions, items 8. a., b., d., e., or h.;
f. A motorized golf cart that is owned by an insured, designed to carry up to 4 persons,
not built or modified after manufacture to exceed a speed of 25 miles per hour on level
ground, and, at the time of an occurrence, is within the legal boundaries of a golfing
facility, and:
i. Is being used within the rules stated for use of a golf cart; and
ii. Is parked or stored there, or being used by an insured to:
(a) Play the game of golf or for other recreational or leisure activity allowed
by the facility;
(b) Travel to or from an area where motor vehicles or golf carts are parked
or stored;
(c) Cross public roads at designated points to access other parts of the
22217AZ (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 2
golfing facility; or
g. A trailer or semi-trailer you own which is not self-propelled and is in dead storage.
B. Watercraft Liability
1. Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and Medical
Payments Coverage do not apply to any watercraft liability arising from the ownership,
maintenance, operation, use, loading, or unloading of any watercraft owned by or rented to an
insured if the watercraft:
a. Has inboard or inboard-outboard motor power of more than 50 horsepower;
b. Is 26 feet or more in overall length; or
c. Is powered by one or more outboard motors totaling over 25 horsepower.
This exclusion, B.1., does not apply to bodily injury or property damage occurring on the insured
location.
2. Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and Medical
Payments Coverage do not apply to watercraft liability if at the time of an occurrence the
involved watercraft is:
a. Being operated in, or practicing for, any spontaneous, prearranged, or organized race,
speed contest, or other competition;
b. Used for hire or charter; or
c. Used in any unlawful trade or transportation.
However, the exclusion, B.2.a., does not apply to sailing vessels or a predicted log cruise.
C. Aircraft Liability
Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and Medical
Payments Coverage do not apply to aircraft liability.
D. Model or Hobby Aircraft Liability
Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and Medical
Payments Coverage do not apply to model or hobby aircraft liability if, at the time and place of an
occurrence, the involved model or hobby aircraft:
1. Fails to give the right of way to manned aircraft; or
2. Is operated outside of:
a. Any applicable Federal Aviation Administration regulations;
b. Any applicable state, local, or municipal regulations; or
c. The manufacturers’ recommended use instructions.
E. Hovercraft Liability
Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and Medical
Payments Coverage do not apply to hovercraft liability.
F. Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and Medical
Payments Coverage do not apply to the following:
1. Expected or Intended Injury
Bodily injury or property damage that may reasonably be expected or intended to result from the
intentional acts of an insured even if the resulting bodily injury or property damage:
a. Is of a different kind, quality, or degree than initially expected or intended; or
b. Is sustained by a different person, entity, real property, or personal property than
initially expected or intended.
This exclusion, F.1., applies regardless of whether any insured personally participated in or
committed the alleged act and regardless of whether any insured subjectively intended the bodily
injury or property damage for which a claim is made.
However, this exclusion, F.1., does not apply to bodily injury resulting from the use of reasonable
force by an insured to protect persons or property;
22217AZ (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 3
2. Business
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of or in connection with a business conducted from
an insured location or engaged in by an insured, whether or not the business is owned or
operated by an insured or employs an insured.
This exclusion, F.2., applies but is not limited to an act or omission, regardless of its nature or
circumstance, involving a service or duty rendered, promised, owed, or implied to be provided
because of the nature of the business.
This exclusion, F.2., does not apply to:
a. The rental of living space in the residence premises if such rental did not exceed 30
days in the 12 months prior to the occurrence;
b. The rental of a private garage on the residence premises; or
c. An insured under the age of 21 years involved in a part-time or occasional, selfemployed
business with no employees;
3. Professional Services
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the rendering of or failure to render professional
services by an insured;
4. Insured's Premises not an Insured Location
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of a premises:
a. Owned by an insured;
b. Rented to an insured; or
c. Rented to others by an insured;
that is not an insured location;
5. War
Bodily injury or property damage caused directly or indirectly by war, including the following and
any consequence of any of the following:
a. Undeclared war, civil war, insurrection, rebellion, or revolution;
b. Warlike act by a military force or military personnel; or
c. Destruction, seizure, or use for a military purpose.
Discharge of a nuclear weapon will be deemed a warlike act even if accidental;
6. Communicable Disease
Bodily injury or property damage that arises out of the transmission of a communicable disease
by an insured. Communicable disease means any bacteria, parasites, viruses, or other organisms
transmissible from person to person due to direct or indirect contact with an affected person or
that person’s discharges, fluid, or blood. This exclusion, F.6., applies regardless of whether any
insured personally participated in or committed the alleged act and regardless of whether any
insured subjectively intended the bodily injury or property damage for which a claim is made;
7. Sexual Misconduct, Sexual Molestation, Corporal Punishment, or Physical or Mental
Abuse
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of sexual misconduct, sexual molestation, corporal
punishment, or physical or mental abuse. This exclusion, F.7., applies regardless of whether any
insured personally participated in or committed the alleged act and regardless of whether any
insured subjectively intended the bodily injury or property damage for which a claim is made;
Sexual misconduct or sexual molestation means any activity, whether or not prosecuted, which is
sexual in nature, whether permitted or unpermitted, including but not limited to: sexual assault;
sexual abuse; sexual battery; sexual relations; sexual acts; sexual activity; sexual handling;
sexual massage; sexual exploitation; sexual exhibition; photographic, video, or other reproduction
of sexual activity; fondling, intimacy, indecent exposure, or undue familiarity; or lewd or lascivious
behavior;
8. Controlled Substance
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the use, sale, delivery, transfer, possession,
growing, production, processing, warehousing, transportation, or manufacturing by any person of
22217AZ (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 4
a controlled substance as defined by the Federal Food and Drug Law at 21 U.S.C.A. Sections
811 and 812 (as amended). This exclusion, F.8., applies regardless of whether any insured
personally participated in or committed the alleged act and regardless of whether any insured
intended the bodily injury or property damage for which a claim is made.
This exclusion, F.8., does not apply to the legitimate use of prescription drugs by a person
following the orders of that person’s licensed physician; however, bodily injury and property
damage arising out of the use, sale, delivery, transfer, possession, growing, production,
processing, warehousing, transportation, or manufacturing of marijuana is excluded regardless of
the presence of a prescription;
9. Criminal Acts
Bodily injury or property damage arising from any criminal act. Criminal act means any act or
omission which is criminal in nature or for which a penal statute or ordinance permits or requires
any term of imprisonment or sentence of public service duties. This exclusion, F.9., applies
regardless of whether any insured:
a. Is actually charged with or convicted of a crime, or
b. Subjectively intended the bodily injury or property damage for which a claim is made;
10. Pollution
a. Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the actual, alleged, or threatened
discharge, dispersal, release, or escape of pollutants.
b. Any loss, cost, or expense resulting from any governmental direction, order, or request
that an insured test for, monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify, neutralize,
or in any way respond to, or assess the effects of pollutants.
Exclusions F.10.a. and F.10.b. do not apply to bodily injury or property damage caused by heat,
smoke, or fumes from a hostile fire. As used in this exclusion, a hostile fire means one that
becomes uncontrollable or breaks out from where it was intended to be;
11. Fungus or Bacteria
a. Bodily injury or property damage caused by, consisting of, or arising out of, either
directly or indirectly, fungus or bacteria; or
b. Any loss, cost, or expense resulting from any governmental direction, order, or request
that an insured treat for, monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify, or
neutralize fungus or bacteria;
12. Lead, Asbestos, Silica, or Radon Gas
a. Bodily injury or property damage caused directly by, indirectly by, or arising out of lead,
asbestos, silica, or radon gas; or
b. Loss, cost, or expense resulting from any governmental direction, order, or request that
an insured treat for, monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify, or neutralize
substances described in F.12.a.; or
13. Horse Family Liability
Bodily injury or property damage caused by horses, donkeys, mules, or any other member of the
Equidae family.
G. Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises and Liability Coverage- Premises Only do not apply to the
following:
1. Liability:
a. For any loss assessment charged against an insured as a member of an association,
corporation, or community of property owners; or
b. Under any contract or agreement entered into by an insured;
2. Property damage to property owned by an insured. This includes costs or expenses incurred by
an insured or others to repair, replace, enhance, restore, or maintain such property to prevent
injury to a person or damage to property of others, whether on or away from an insured location;
3. Property damage to property rented to, occupied or used by, or in the care of an insured. This
exclusion, G.3., does not apply to property damage caused by fire, smoke, or explosion;
22217AZ (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 5
4. Bodily injury to any person eligible to receive any benefits voluntarily provided or required to be
provided by an insured under any:
a. Workers’ compensation law;
b. Non-occupational disability law; or
c. Occupational disease law;
5. Bodily injury or property damage from any:
a. Nuclear reaction;
b. Nuclear radiation; or
c. Radioactive contamination;
All whether controlled or uncontrolled or however caused; or
d. Any consequence of any of these;
6. Bodily injury to any insured.
This exclusion, G.6., also applies to any claim made or suit brought against you or an insured:
a. To repay; or
b. Share damages with;
another person who may be obligated to pay damages because of bodily injury to an insured;
7. Property damage to:
a. Goods or products, including containers, which an insured manufactures, sells,
handles, or distributes;
b. Work completed by or for an insured; or
c. An insured location arising out of the alienation (e.g. selling, leasing, separating) of that
location; or
8. Punitive or exemplary damages. These include damages that may be imposed to punish a
wrongdoer or deter others from similar conduct. If a suit is brought against an insured seeking
covered compensatory damages and punitive or exemplary damages, we will afford a defense to
such action but will not pay such punitive or exemplary damages.
H. Medical Payments Coverage does not apply to bodily injury:
1. To a residence employee if the bodily injury:
a. Occurs off the insured location; and
b. Does not arise out of or in the course of the residence employee’s employment by an
insured;
2. To any person eligible to receive benefits voluntarily provided or required to be provided under
any:
a. Workers’ compensation law;
b. Non-occupational disability law; or
c. Occupational disease law;
3. From any:
a. Nuclear reaction;
b. Nuclear radiation; or
c. Radioactive contamination;
All whether controlled or uncontrolled or however caused; or
d. Any consequence of any of these; or
4. To any person, other than a residence employee of an insured, residing on any part of the
insured location; or
5. To any person, caused by animals owned or kept by any insured’s roomers, boarders, or other
tenants.
The following Section 1 Coverage Exclusions do not apply to bodily injury to a residence employee arising out
of and in the course of the residence employee’s employment by an insured:
• Motor Vehicle Liability (Paragraph A),
• Watercraft Liability (Paragraph B),
• Aircraft Liability (Paragraph C),
22217AZ (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 6
• Model or Hobby Aircraft Liability (Paragraph D),
• Hovercraft Liability (Paragraph E), and
• Insured’s Premises not an Insured Location (Paragraph F.4.).
Section 1 Coverage Conditions
In addition to the General Policy Conditions, if you have purchased Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises,
Liability Coverage- Premises Only, or Medical Payments Coverage, the following conditions also apply to
such coverages:
A. Limit of Liability
Our total liability under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises and Liability Coverage- Premises
Only for all damages resulting from any one occurrence will not be more than the Limit of Liability that
corresponds to Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises or Liability Coverage- Premises Only on
your Declarations page. This Limit of Liability is the same regardless of the number of insureds, injured
persons, claims made, persons liable, claimants, or policies involved. All bodily injury and property
damage resulting from any one accident or from continuous or repeated exposure to substantially the
same general harmful conditions shall be considered to be the result of one occurrence.
Our total liability under Medical Payments Coverage for all medical expense payable for bodily injury to
one person as the result of one occurrence will not exceed the Limit of Liability specified for Each Person
corresponding to Medical Payments Coverage on your Declarations page. Our total liability under
Medical Payments Coverage for all medical expense payable for bodily injury to two or more persons as
the result of one occurrence will not exceed the Limit of Liability specified for Each Occurrence
corresponding to Medical Payments Coverage on your Declarations page.
B. Joint Obligations
The terms of this policy impose joint obligations on persons defined as an insured person. This means
that responsibilities, acts, and failures to act of a person defined as an insured person will be binding
upon another person defined as an insured person.
C. Duties After Occurrence
In case of an occurrence, you or another insured must perform the following duties that apply. We have
no duty to provide coverage under this policy if you fail to comply with the following duties:
1. Give written notice to us or our agent as soon as is practical, which sets forth:
a. The policy number and the named insured shown under Named Insured on your
Declarations page;
b. Reasonably available information on the time, place, and circumstances of the
occurrence; and
c. Names and addresses of any claimants and witnesses;
2. Cooperate with us and any retained legal counsel in the investigation, settlement, or defense of
any claim or suit;
3. Promptly forward to us every notice, demand, summons, or other legal document relating to the
occurrence;
4. At our request, help us:
a. To effect settlement;
b. To enforce any right of contribution or indemnity against any person or organization
that may be liable for the occurrence;
c. With the conduct of suits and attend hearings and trials; and
d. To secure and give evidence and obtain the attendance of witnesses;
5. Promptly give notice of an occurrence, a claim that is made, or a suit, to any other insurer who
might provide insurance for the occurrence;
6. Promptly identify, report, and tender the defense of any claim made or suit to any other insurer
that also might have available insurance for the occurrence;
22217AZ (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 7
7. With respect to C. Damage to Property of Others under Liability Coverage- Personal &
Premises and Liability Coverage- Premises Only, you must submit to us within 60 days after
the loss, a sworn statement of loss and show the damaged property, if it is in an insured’s control;
8. No insured will, except at such insured’s own cost, voluntarily make payment, assume obligation,
or incur expense other than for first aid to others at the time of the bodily injury; and
9. Submit to examinations under oath, as often as we reasonably require, outside the presence of
all other insureds, and sign the same within a reasonable amount of time of our request, after
having been informed:
a. Of your right to counsel; and
b. That your answers may be used against you in later civil proceedings or criminal
proceedings.
D. Duties of an Injured Person – Medical Payments Coverage
1. The injured person or someone acting for the injured person will:
a. Give us written proof of claim, under oath if we so request, as soon as is practical;
b. Authorize us to obtain copies of medical reports and records when and as often as we
request.
2. The injured person will submit to a physical exam by a doctor of our choice when and as often as
we reasonably require; and
3. The injured person or someone acting for the injured person will submit to examinations under
oath, as often as we reasonably require, outside the presence of all insureds, and sign the same
within a reasonable amount of time of our request, after having been informed:
a. Of his or her right to counsel; and
b. That his or her answers may be used against him or her in later civil proceedings or
criminal proceedings.
E. Payment of Claim – Medical Payments Coverage
We reserve the right to make direct payment to the injured person or any individual or organization
rendering medical services. That payment reduces the total amount we will pay for that injury. Payment
under this coverage is not an admission of liability by an insured or us.
F. Suit Against Us
1. No action can be brought against us unless there has been full compliance with all of the terms
under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, or
Medical Payments Coverage.
2. No one will have the right to join us as a party to any action against an insured.
3. No action with respect to Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises and Liability Coverage-
Premises Only can be brought against us until the obligation of such insured has been
determined by final judgment or agreement signed by us.
4. Under Medical Payments Coverage, an action to collect benefits must be taken no later than
three years after the date of the occurrence.
G. Bankruptcy of an Insured
Bankruptcy or insolvency of an insured will not relieve us of our obligations under this policy.
H. Other Insurance
This insurance is excess over other valid and collectible insurance except insurance written specifically to
cover as excess over the limits of liability that apply in this policy.
I. Concealment or Fraud
We do not provide coverage to any insured, who, in connection with a loss, has:
1. Intentionally concealed or misrepresented any material fact or circumstance;
2. Made false statements of fact which, if known to us, would have caused us not to issue the policy;
or
22217AZ (01-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 8
3. Engaged in fraudulent conduct
relating to a claim under this policy.
J. Additional Insured
Whenever the word insured is used in this policy, the term also includes the person or organization
named on your Declarations page as Additional Insured. This definition is limited to the following:
1. Under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and
Medical Payments Coverage, this definition of Additional Insured applies only to the ownership,
maintenance, and use of the insured location. Coverage does not apply to bodily injury to a
residence employee arising out of or in the course of the residence employee’s employment by
the Additional Insured.
K. Our Right to Rescind this Policy
We may rescind this policy when any insured has:
1. Intentionally concealed or misrepresented any material fact or circumstance;
2. Made false statements of fact which, if known to us, would have caused us not to issue the policy;
and
3. Engaged in fraudulent conduct
relating to the application for or continuation of this policy.
22203 (00-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Dwelling Coverage - Homeowners
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions below for this coverage.
To confirm you have Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, please refer to your current Declarations page. Your
Declarations page lists the coverages you have purchased and may list additional coverage-specific information
such as the Loss Settlement Selection Form, Perils Insured Against, and Limits of Liability you have chosen for
each coverage. However, please always refer to this form for complete details.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Definitions
All General Definitions in the General Policy Packet apply to your Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners and
related endorsements and forms. In addition:
1. Covered loss means sudden, accidental direct physical damage to covered property which is a direct
result of a Peril Insured Against as shown on your Declarations page for the described coverage.
2. Occurrence means the happening of an event, or series of events closely related in time and nature, that
give rise to a loss.
What is covered (includes limitations)
If you have purchased Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, we insure covered property against a covered loss,
up to the corresponding Limit of Liability listed on your Declarations page. Covered property is described below.
Perils Insured Against are described and identified by number in the Section 2 Policy Packet. We insure covered
property against the peril number(s) listed on your Declarations page corresponding to Dwelling Coverage-
Homeowners.
1. If you have purchased Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, we will pay for covered losses to:
a. The dwelling on the residence premises; and
b. Materials and supplies located on or next to the residence premises used to construct, alter, or
repair the dwelling on the residence premises.
2. We do not cover land, including:
a. The land necessary to support any property insured under your Dwelling Coverage-
Homeowners;
b. Any costs required to replace, rebuild, stabilize, or otherwise restore the land; or
c. The cost of repair techniques designed to compensate for or prevent land instability to any
property, whether or not insured under your Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners.
3. Subject to the Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners Limit of Liability, we will pay only that part of any
covered loss which exceeds any Policy Deductible (as stated on your Declarations page), unless an
additional or different deductible is specified in the applicable coverage or related endorsement. If an
additional or different deductible is specified in an applicable coverage or related endorsement, then we
will pay only that part of any covered loss which exceeds the additional or different deductible. The Policy
Deductible, or other additional or different deductible, applies to each occurrence to which this Dwelling
Coverage- Homeowners applies.
22203 (00-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 2
4. We settle covered losses under Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners according to the Loss Settlement
Selection Form you purchased, as listed on your Declarations page corresponding to Dwelling
Coverage- Homeowners.
Exclusions
Your Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners is subject to the following Exclusions:
Please refer to the Section 2 Coverage Exclusions in the Section 2 Policy Packet for exclusions that apply to
your Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners.
Conditions- including limits
Your Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners is subject to the following Conditions:
Please refer to the General Policy Conditions, and the Section 2 Coverage Conditions in the Section 2
Policy Packet, for conditions that apply to your Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners.
The following Special Conditions also apply to your Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners:
1. When a Location Insured is not your principal residence for more than 60 consecutive days immediately
before the loss, coverage under Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners still applies unless the Location
Insured has been rented to others. Additionally, coverage under this Special Condition shall not be
increased by item 3. in Loss Settlement Selection Form 3 or Loss Settlement Selection Form 4, if
purchased.
This form does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this form.
22205 (00-05/19) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Personal Property Coverage
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions below for this coverage.
To confirm you have Personal Property Coverage, please refer to your current Declarations page. Your
Declarations page lists the coverages you have purchased and may list additional coverage-specific information
such as the Loss Settlement Selection Form, Perils Insured Against, and Limits of Liability you have chosen for
each coverage. However, please always refer to this form for complete details.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Definitions
All General Definitions in the General Policy Packet apply to your Personal Property Coverage and related
endorsements and forms. In addition:
1. Covered loss means sudden, accidental direct physical damage to covered property which is a direct
result of a Peril Insured Against as shown on your Declarations page for the described coverage.
2. Occurrence means the happening of an event, or series of events closely related in time and nature, that
give rise to a loss.
What is covered (includes limitations)
If you have purchased Personal Property Coverage, we insure covered property against a covered loss, up to
the corresponding Limit of Liability listed on your Declarations page. Covered property is described below. Perils
Insured Against are described and identified by number in the Section 2 Policy Packet. We insure covered
property against the peril number(s) listed on your Declarations page corresponding to Personal Property
Coverage.
1. Covered Property (includes limitations)
a. Insured’s Property
We cover personal property owned by or used by an insured while it is anywhere in the world.
b. Property of Others
After a loss and at your request, we will cover personal property owned by:
i. Others while the property is on the part of the residence premises occupied by an
insured; or
ii. A guest or residence employee while the property is in any residence occupied by an
insured.
If you ask us to cover property under b. i. or ii. above, the owner of the property is bound by all of
the terms and conditions of this policy.
2. Limit of Liability for Property at Other Residences
Our Limit of Liability for personal property usually located at an insured’s residence other than the
residence premises is 10% of the Limit of Liability for Personal Property Coverage or $1,000, whichever
is greater. However, this limitation does not apply to personal property:
a. Moved from the residence premises because the residence premises is being repaired,
renovated, or rebuilt and is not fit to live in or store property in; or
b. In a newly acquired principal residence for 30 days from the time you begin to move the property
there.
3. Special Limits of Liability
22205 (00-05/19) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 2
The special limit for each category shown below is the total limit for each loss for all property in that
category. These special limits do not increase the Personal Property Coverage Limit of Liability.
a. $200 on money, checks, bank notes, bullion, gold other than goldware, silver other than
silverware, platinum other than platinumware, coins, casino chips, gift certificates, medals, scrip,
stored value cards, and smart cards.
b. $1,500 on securities, accounts, deeds, evidences of debt, letters of credit, notes other than bank
notes, manuscripts, personal records, passports, tickets, and stamps. This limit applies to these
categories regardless of the medium (such as paper or computer software) on which the material
exists. This limit includes the cost to research, replace, or restore the information from the lost or
damaged material.
c. $1,500 on watercraft of all types, including their trailers, furnishings, equipment, and outboard
engines or motors. We do not cover loss by windstorm or hail to this property unless the property
is inside a fully enclosed building. Canoes and rowboats, however, are covered outside against
loss by windstorm or hail if this property is on the insured location.
d. $1,500 on trailers of all types except camping trailers and those used with watercraft.
e. $2,500 on jewelry, watches, furs, and precious and semi-precious stones. This special limit does
not apply to losses caused by Perils Insured Against 2 through 18 if those perils are purchased on
this policy for Personal Property Coverage.
f. $2,500 on firearms and related equipment. This special limit does not apply to losses caused by
Perils Insured Against 2 through 18 if those perils are purchased on this policy for Personal
Property Coverage.
g. $2,500 on silverware, silver-plated ware, goldware, gold-plated ware, platinumware, platinumplated
ware, and pewter ware. This includes flatware, hollowware, tea sets, trays, and trophies
made of or including silver, gold, or pewter. This special limit does not apply to losses caused by
Perils Insured Against 2 through 18 if those perils are purchased on this policy for Personal
Property Coverage.
h. $2,500 on property on the residence premises used or intended for use in a business.
i. $500 on property away from the residence premises used or intended for use in a business.
j. $1,500 on electronic apparatus and accessories, while in or upon a motor vehicle, but only if the
apparatus is equipped to be operated by power from the motor vehicle’s electrical system while
still capable of being operated by other power sources. Accessories include antennas, tapes,
wires, records, discs, or other media that can be used with any apparatus described in this
category, j.
k. $1,000 for electronic apparatus designed to be operated solely by power from the electrical
system of a motor vehicle while such property is not in or upon a motor vehicle.
l. $500 on recreational motor vehicles, their accessories, equipment, and parts.
m. $2,500 for trading cards and comic books, including any of these that are part of a collection.
n. $5,000 on any one article and $10,000 in the aggregate for loss of any rug, carpet (except wall to
wall carpet), tapestry, wall-hanging, or other similar articles. This special limit does not apply to
losses caused by Perils Insured Against 2 through 18 if those perils are purchased on this policy
for Personal Property Coverage.
o. $1,500 on camping trailers, slide-in campers, and campers of any type.
p. $5,000 on motor vehicles not required to be registered for use on public roads, used solely to
service an insured’s residence, including their accessories, equipment, and parts.
4. Property Not Covered
We do not cover:
a. Articles separately described and specifically insured, regardless of the limit for which they are
insured, in this or other insurance. This includes articles insured under Scheduled Personal
Property Coverage;
b. Animals, birds, or fish;
c. Motor vehicles.
i. This includes:
22205 (00-05/19) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 3
(a) Their accessories, equipment, and parts; or
(b) Electronic apparatus and accessories designed to be operated solely by power
from the electrical system of the motor vehicle. Accessories include antennas,
tapes, wires, records, discs, or other media that can be used with any apparatus
described above.
This exclusion, 4.c.i.(b), applies only while such property is in or upon a motor
vehicle. When not in or upon a motor vehicle, an electronic apparatus is limited to
3. Special Limits of Liability, item k.;
ii. We do cover motor vehicles not required to be registered for use on public roads which
are:
(a) Used solely to service an insured’s residence, subject to 3. Special Limits of
Liability, item p.;
(b) Lawnmowers used on or away from the insured’s residence;
(c) Designed to assist the handicapped; or
(d) Recreational motor vehicles subject to 3. Special Limits of Liability, item l.;
d. Semi-trailers;
e. Mobile homes;
f. Aircraft, meaning any contrivance used or designed for flight, including any parts whether or not
attached to the aircraft, except as provided for in your Additional & Special Coverages for Model
or Hobby Aircraft Coverage;
g. Hovercraft and parts. Hovercraft means a self-propelled motorized ground effect vehicle and
includes, but is not limited to, flare craft and air cushion vehicles;
h. Property of roomers, boarders, and other tenants, except property of roomers and boarders
related to an insured;
i. Property in a living space on the residence premises regularly rented or held for rental to others,
for more than the amount provided by 3. Special Limits of Liability, item h.;
j. Property rented or held for rental to others off the residence premises;
k. Business data, including such data stored in:
i. Books of account, drawings, or other paper records; or
ii. Computers and related equipment.
l. Credit cards, electronic fund transfer cards, or access devices used solely for deposit, withdrawal
or transfer of funds, except as provided for in your Additional & Special Coverages for Credit
Card and Forgery Coverage;
m. Water or steam, except for water contained in a swimming pool;
n. Radar detectors;
o. Controlled substances as defined by the Federal Food and Drug Law at 21 U.S.C.A. Sections 811
and 812 (as amended). This provision does not apply to prescription drugs prescribed by the
insured’s licensed physician. Marijuana, however, is not covered property, regardless of the
presence of a prescription;
p. Trees, shrubs, plants, and lawns, except as provided for in your Additional & Special Coverages
for Trees, Shrubs, Plants, and Lawns Coverage; or
q. Electronic, digital, or crypto-currency, including any electronic data processing equipment or
storage equipment used in conjunction with any electronic, digital, or crypto-currency.
5. Additional Perils for Refrigerated Personal Property
We will pay up to $500, unless a greater amount is listed on your Declarations page, for Refrigerated
Personal Property Coverage for loss or damage to contents of all freezers and refrigerated units on the
residence premises if the loss is caused by a change in temperature resulting from:
a. Interruption of electrical service to refrigeration equipment caused by damage to generating or
transmission equipment;
b. Interruption of electrical service by any other cause, unless resulting from human error of an
insured; or
c. Mechanical or electrical breakdown of the refrigeration system.
22205 (00-05/19) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 4
Under this coverage, we will pay up to our Limit of Liability provided that the refrigerated property:
a. Is owned by an insured; and
b. Is not business personal property.
The insured must exercise diligence in inspecting and maintaining refrigeration equipment in proper
working condition. If interruption of electrical service, or mechanical or electrical breakdown is known, all
reasonable means must be used to protect the covered property from further damage or this coverage is
void.
6. Subject to the Personal Property Coverage Limit of Liability and Special Limits of Liability stated
above, we will pay only that part of any covered loss which exceeds any Policy Deductible (as stated on
your Declarations page), unless an additional or different deductible is specified in the applicable coverage
or related endorsement. If an additional or different deductible is specified in an applicable coverage or
related endorsement, then we will pay only that part of any covered loss which exceeds the additional or
different deductible. The Policy Deductible, or other additional or different deductible, applies to each
occurrence to which this Personal Property Coverage applies.
7. We settle covered losses under Personal Property Coverage according to the Loss Settlement
Selection Form you purchased, as listed on your Declarations page corresponding to Personal Property
Coverage.
Exclusions
Your Personal Property Coverage is subject to the following Exclusions:
Please refer to the Section 2 Coverage Exclusions in the Section 2 Policy Packet for exclusions that apply to
your Personal Property Coverage.
Conditions- including limits
Your Personal Property Coverage is subject to the following Conditions:
Please refer to the General Policy Conditions, and the Section 2 Coverage Conditions in the Section 2
Policy Packet, for conditions that apply to your Personal Property Coverage.
The following Special Conditions also apply to your Personal Property Coverage:
1. Loss to a Pair or Set
In case of covered loss to a pair or set we may elect to:
a. Repair or replace any part to restore the pair or set to its value before the loss; or
b. Pay the difference between actual cash value of the property before and after the loss.
This form does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this form.
22206 (00-05/19) 1
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
Additional Living Expense &
Fair Rental Value Coverage
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions below for this coverage.
To confirm you have Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage, please refer to your current
Declarations page. Your Declarations page lists the coverages you have purchased and may list additional
coverage-specific information such as the Loss Settlement Selection Form, Perils Insured Against, and Limits
of Liability you have chosen for each coverage. However, please always refer to this form for complete details.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Definitions
All General Definitions in the General Policy Packet apply to your Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental
Value Coverage and related endorsements and forms. In addition:
1. Covered loss means sudden, accidental direct physical damage to covered property which is a direct
result of a Peril Insured Against as shown on your Declarations page for the described coverage.
2. Occurrence means the happening of an event, or series of events closely related in time and nature, that
give rise to a loss.
What is covered (includes limitations)
If you have purchased Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage, we insure the additional
living expense and/or fair rental value necessarily incurred after a covered loss caused by a Peril Insured Against,
up to the Limit of Liability corresponding to Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage on your
Declarations page. The Limit of Liability shown on your Declarations page corresponding to Additional Living
Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage is the total limit for both 1. Additional Living Expense and 2. Fair
Rental Value. Perils Insured Against are described and identified by number in the Section 2 Policy Packet.
1. Additional Living Expense
If a covered loss to your property makes that part of the residence premises where you reside not fit to
live in, we cover any necessary increase in living expenses incurred by you so that your household can
maintain its normal standard of living.
Payment will be for only the shortest time reasonably required to repair or replace the damage or, if you
choose not to pursue your replacement cost loss settlement and permanently relocate, the shortest time
reasonably required for your household to settle elsewhere.
2. Fair Rental Value
If a covered loss to your property makes that part of the residence premises rented to others or held for
rental by you not fit to live in, we cover the fair rental value of such premises less any expenses that do
not continue while it is not fit to live in. We will not pay such fair rental value if you do not have a legal
right to rent to others.
Payment will be only for the shortest time reasonably required to repair or replace that part of the
premises rented or held for rental.
3. Civil Authority Prohibits Use
22206 (00-05/19) 2
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
If a civil authority prohibits you from use of the residence premises as a result of direct physical damage
to neighboring premises by a Peril Insured Against, as reflected on your Declarations page for Additional
Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage, we cover the loss as provided in 1. Additional Living
Expense and 2. Fair Rental Value above for no more than two weeks.
4. Loss or Expense Not Covered
We do not cover loss or expense due to cancellation of a lease or agreement.
5. The periods of time under Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage are not limited by
expiration of this policy.
6. Subject to the Limit of Liability corresponding to Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value
Coverage on your Declarations page, we will pay only that part of any covered loss which exceeds any
Policy Deductible (as stated on your Declarations page), unless an additional or different deductible is
specified in the applicable coverage or related endorsement. If an additional or different deductible is
specified in an applicable coverage or related endorsement, then we will pay only that part of any covered
loss which exceeds the additional or different deductible. The Policy Deductible, or other additional or
different deductible, applies to each occurrence to which this Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental
Value Coverage applies.
Exclusions
Your Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage is subject to the following Exclusions:
Please refer to the Section 2 Coverage Exclusions in the Section 2 Policy Packet for exclusions that apply to
your Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage.
Conditions- including limits
Your Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage is subject to the following Conditions:
Please refer to the General Policy Conditions, and the Section 2 Coverage Conditions in the Section 2
Policy Packet, for conditions that apply to your Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage.
This form does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this form.
22207 (00-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions below for this coverage.
To confirm you have Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage, please refer to your current Declarations page.
Your Declarations page lists the coverages you have purchased and may list additional coverage-specific
information such as the Loss Settlement Selection Form, Perils Insured Against, and Limits of Liability you have
chosen for each coverage. However, please always refer to this form for complete details.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Definitions
All General Definitions in the General Policy Packet apply to your Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage and
related endorsements and forms. In addition:
1. Covered loss means sudden, accidental direct physical damage to covered property which is a direct
result of a Peril Insured Against as shown on your Declarations page for the described coverage.
2. Occurrence means the happening of an event, or series of events closely related in time and nature, that
give rise to a loss.
What is covered (includes limitations)
If you have purchased Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage, we insure covered property against a covered
loss, up to the corresponding Limit of Liability listed on your Declarations page. Covered property is described
below. Perils Insured Against are described and identified by number in the Section 2 Policy Packet. We insure
covered property against the peril number(s) listed on your Declarations page corresponding to Auxiliary Private
Structures Coverage.
1. Under Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage, covered property consists of structures on the residence
premises:
a. Set apart from the dwelling by clear space; or
b. Connected to the dwelling by only a fence, utility line, or similar connection.
2. We do not cover:
a. Land, including:
i. The land necessary to support any property insured under your Auxiliary Private
Structures Coverage;
ii. Any costs required to replace, rebuild, stabilize, or otherwise restore the land; or
iii. The cost of repair techniques designed to compensate for or prevent land instability to
any property, whether or not insured under Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage;
b. Other structures rented or held for rental unless used solely as a private garage; or
c. Other structures used in whole or in part for any business, ranching, or farming purposes unless
the business is covered under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage-
Premises Only, or Medical Payments Coverage of this policy.
3. Subject to the Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage Limit of Liability, we will pay only that part of any
covered loss which exceeds any Policy Deductible (as stated on your Declarations page), unless an
additional or different deductible is specified in the applicable coverage or related endorsement. If an
additional or different deductible is specified in an applicable coverage or related endorsement, then we
will pay only that part of any covered loss which exceeds the additional or different deductible. The Policy
22207 (00-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 2
Deductible, or other additional or different deductible, applies to each occurrence to which this Auxiliary
Private Structures Coverage applies.
4. We settle covered losses under Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage according to the Loss
Settlement Selection Form you purchased, as listed on your Declarations page corresponding to
Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage.
Exclusions
Your Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage is subject to the following Exclusions:
Please refer to the Section 2 Coverage Exclusions in the Section 2 Policy Packet for exclusions that apply to
your Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage.
Conditions- including limits
Your Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage is subject to the following Conditions:
Please refer to the General Policy Conditions, and the Section 2 Coverage Conditions in the Section 2
Policy Packet, for conditions that apply to your Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage.
This form does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this form.
22209AZ (00-05/19) 1
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
Additional & Special Coverages
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions below for this coverage.
To confirm you have Additional & Special Coverages, please refer to your current Declarations page. Your
Declarations page lists the coverages you have purchased and may list additional coverage-specific information
such as the Loss Settlement Selection Form, Perils Insured Against, and Limits of Liability you have chosen for
each coverage. However, please always refer to this form for complete details.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Definitions
All General Definitions in the General Policy Packet apply to your Additional & Special Coverages and
related endorsements and forms. In addition:
1. Covered loss means sudden, accidental direct physical damage to covered property which is a direct
result of a Peril Insured Against as shown on your Declarations page for the described coverage.
2. Occurrence means the happening of an event, or series of events closely related in time and nature, that
give rise to a loss.
What is covered (includes limitations)
When Additional & Special Coverages are shown on your Declarations page, the following coverages apply to
your property covered under this policy.
1. Additional Coverages (Includes Limitations)
a. Reasonable Repairs
i. If a covered loss occurs, we will pay the reasonable and necessary cost you incur for
temporary repairs to covered property to protect the property from further immediate
damage or loss.
ii. If the measures taken involve repair to other damaged property, we will only pay if the
other damaged property sustained a covered loss.
iii. This coverage does not:
(a) Increase the Limit of Liability that applies to the covered property; or
(b) Relieve you of your duties, in case of a loss to covered property, described in
B.5. under Section 2 Coverage Conditions.
b. Collapse
i. With respect to this Additional Coverage:
(a) Collapse means a member of a structure has actually fallen down or fallen into
pieces. It does not include settling, cracking, bending, leaning, shrinking, bulging,
expansion, sagging, or bowing.
(b) A building or any part of a building that is in danger of falling down or caving in is
not considered to be in a state of collapse.
(c) A part of a building that is standing is not considered to be in a state of collapse
even if it has separated from another part of the building.
(d) A building or any part of a building that is standing is not considered to be in a
state of collapse even if it shows evidence of cracking, bulging, sagging, bending,
leaning, settling, shrinkage, or expansion.
22209AZ (00-05/19) 2
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
ii. We insure for loss to covered property involving collapse of a building or any part of a
building if the collapse was caused by one or more of the following:
(a) The Perils Insured Against that apply to the covered property. However, if peril 1.
Risk of Direct Physical Loss applies to the covered property, then only perils 2.
through 19. shall apply to this Additional Coverage;
(b) Weight of contents, equipment, animals, or people;
(c) Weight of rain that collects on a roof or ceiling; or
(d) Use of defective material or methods in construction, remodeling, or renovation if
the collapse occurs during the course of the construction, remodeling, or
renovation.
iii. Loss to an awning, gutter, fence, patio, deck, pavement, swimming pool, underground
pipe, flue, drain, cesspool, septic tank, foundation, retaining wall, bulkhead, pier, wharf, or
dock is not covered under b.ii.(b) through b.ii.(d) above, unless the loss is a direct result
of the collapse of a building or any part of a building.
iv. This coverage does not increase the Limit of Liability that applies to the damaged
covered property and will be settled according to the Loss Settlement Selection Form
applicable to the covered building, as shown on your Declarations page.
c. Grave Markers
We will pay up to $5,000 for human grave markers, including mausoleums, on or away from the
residence premises for loss caused by a Peril Insured Against applicable to Personal Property
Coverage.
This coverage, Grave Markers, will be settled according to the Loss Settlement Selection
Form applicable to Personal Property Coverage.
d. Locks
We will pay up to $1,000 for the reasonable expenses you incur to re-key, replace, recode,
program, or reprogram locks on exterior doors of the residence premises if the keys to those
locks are stolen and theft coverage is provided. We will pay no more than the amount necessary
to replace your locks with like kind and quality or re-key, recode, program, or reprogram the
existing locks, whichever is less. The deductible does not apply to this coverage.
e. Building Ordinance
i. This Additional Coverage applies only to parts of the dwelling covered under Dwelling
Coverage- Homeowners or Dwelling Coverage- Condominium. Also, this Additional
Coverage only applies when Loss Settlement Selection Forms 2, 3, 4, or 7 are
purchased for Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners or Dwelling Coverage-
Condominium.
ii. If a covered loss occurs under any Dwelling Coverage form, we will pay for the
increased costs you incur due to the enforcement of any ordinance or law that requires or
regulates:
(a) The construction, demolition, remodeling, renovation, or repair of that part of a
covered dwelling damaged by a Peril Insured Against;
(b) The demolition and reconstruction of the undamaged part of a covered dwelling,
when that dwelling must be totally demolished because of damage by a Peril
Insured Against to another part of that dwelling; or
(c) The remodeling, removal, or replacement of the portion of the undamaged part of
a covered dwelling necessary to complete the remodeling, repair, or replacement
of that part of the covered dwelling damaged by a Peril Insured Against.
This coverage, 1.e.ii., provides additional insurance up to 10% of the applicable limit for
your Dwelling Coverage form, unless a different percentage is shown on your
Declarations page for Building Ordinance, but is not increased by Loss Settlement
Selection Form 3 or Loss Settlement Selection Form 4, if purchased.
22209AZ (00-05/19) 3
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
iii. You may use all or part of this Building Ordinance coverage to pay for the increased
costs you incur to remove debris resulting from the construction, demolition, remodeling,
renovation, repair, or replacement of property as stated in e.i. above.
iv. We do not cover:
(a) The loss in value to any covered dwelling due to the requirements of any
ordinance or law;
(b) The costs to comply with any ordinance or law which requires any insured or
others to test for, monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize,
or in any way respond to, or assess the effects of pollutants or fungus in or on
any covered dwelling; or
(c) The cost to comply with any ordinance or law which requires any insured to
repair or replace the undamaged portion of covered property for the purpose of
matching the color, texture, or appearance of the replaced or repaired property.
2. Special Coverages (Includes Limitations)
a. Trees, Shrubs, Plants, and Lawns Coverage
We will cover the trees, shrubs, plants, or lawns on the residence premises, which you own,
within 250 feet of the residence premises, for loss caused by the following perils:
i. Fire or Lightning;
ii. Explosion;
iii. Riot or Civil Commotion;
iv. Aircraft;
v. Vehicles not owned or operated by a resident of the residence premises;
vi. Vandalism or Malicious Mischief; or
vii. Theft.
This coverage, 2.a., is additional insurance. We will pay up to an additional 5% of the Limit of
Liability that applies to Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners or Dwelling Coverage-
Condominium for all covered trees, shrubs, plants, or lawns.
No more than $500 of this limit will be paid for any one tree, shrub, plant, or lawn, including
expenses incurred for removing debris. We do not cover property grown for business purposes.
Under Trees, Shrubs, Plants, and Lawns Coverage, we do not cover any plants used (or which
can be used) to manufacture a controlled substance, as defined by the Federal Food and Drug
Law at 21 U.S.C.A. Sections 811 and 812 (as amended), regardless of whether the controlled
substance is legal under any state law (for example: marijuana).
This coverage will be settled according to actual cash value.
b. Debris Removal Coverage
i. After a covered loss occurs, we will pay your reasonable expense for the removal of
debris of covered property. This expense is included in the applicable Limit of Liability
that applies to the damaged property. If the amount to be paid for the actual damage to
the property plus the debris removal expense is more than the Limit of Liability for the
damaged property, an additional 5% of that applicable limit is available for such expense.
This additional coverage does not apply to Trees, Shrubs, Plants, and Lawns
Coverage.
ii. We will also pay your reasonable expense, up to $500, for the removal from the
residence premises of tree(s) within 250 feet of the dwelling felled by windstorm, hail, or
weight of ice, snow, or sleet, provided the tree(s):
(a) Damage(s) a covered structure; or
(b) Do(es) not damage a covered structure, but:
22209AZ (00-05/19) 4
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
(1) Block(s) a driveway on the residence premises which prevent(s) a motor
vehicle, that is registered for use on public roads or property, from
entering or leaving the residence premises; or
(2) Block(s) a ramp or other fixture designed to assist a handicapped person
to enter or leave the dwelling building.
The $500 limit is the most we will pay in any one occurrence regardless of the number of
fallen trees. This coverage, 2.b., is additional insurance.
c. Credit Card and Forgery Coverage
i. We will pay up to $1,000 for:
(a) The legal obligation of an insured to pay because of the theft or unauthorized use
of credit cards issued to an insured or registered in an insured’s name;
(b) Loss resulting from theft or unauthorized use of an electronic fund transfer card
or access device used for deposit, withdrawal, or transfer of funds, issued to an
insured or registered in an insured's name;
(c) Loss to an insured caused by forgery or alteration of any check or negotiable
instrument; and
(d) Loss to an insured through acceptance in good faith of counterfeit United States
or Canadian paper currency.
All loss resulting from a series of acts committed by any one person or in which any one
person is concerned or implicated is considered to be one loss.
ii. We do not cover:
(a) Use of a credit card, electronic fund transfer card, or access device:
(1) By a resident of your household;
(2) By a person who has been entrusted by an insured with either type of
card or access device; or
(3) If an insured has not complied with all terms and conditions under which
the cards are issued or the devices are accessed; or
(b) Loss arising out of business use or dishonesty of an insured.
iii. If the coverage in i. above applies, the following defense provisions also apply:
(a) We may investigate and settle any claim or suit that we decide is appropriate.
Our duty to defend a claim or suit ends when the amount we pay for the loss
equals our Limit of Liability.
(b) If a suit is brought against an insured for liability under i.(a) or i.(b) above, we will
provide a defense at our expense by counsel of our choice.
(c) We have the option to defend at our expense an insured or an insured's bank
against any suit for the enforcement of payment under i.(c) above.
iv. If a higher Limit of Liability is shown on your Declarations page for this Credit Card and
Forgery Coverage, then that amount will apply.
This coverage, 2.c., is additional insurance. The deductible does not apply.
d. Intentionally Left Blank
e. Model or Hobby Aircraft Coverage
i. We will pay up to $2,500 per occurrence, subject to a $500 deductible, for a covered loss
to your model or hobby aircraft, including their equipment, parts, or accessories, caused
by a peril applicable to your Personal Property Coverage. The Loss Settlement
Selection Form you have selected for Personal Property Coverage applies to Model
or Hobby Aircraft Coverage. This coverage does not increase the Limit of Liability that
applies to your Personal Property Coverage.
ii. We will not pay for loss to model or hobby aircraft:
(a) That fail to give the right of way to manned aircraft;
(b) That are operated outside of:
22209AZ (00-05/19) 5
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
(1) Any applicable Federal Aviation Administration regulations;
(2) Any applicable state, local, or municipal regulations; or
(3) The manufacturers’ recommended use instructions;
(c) Caused by repair, adjusting, servicing, maintenance, or lack of repairing,
adjusting, servicing, or maintenance unless fire or explosion ensues. If fire or
explosion ensues, we will cover only damage caused by such fire or explosion;
(d) Caused by mysterious disappearance, such as fly-aways and unexplained
losses;
(e) Arising while rented or leased to persons or corporations other than you or an
Additional Insured; or
(f) Arising in conjunction with operation of a model or hobby aircraft for the purpose
of business or commercial interests.
iii. We do not cover articles separately described and specifically insured, regardless of the
limit for which they are insured, in this or other insurance. This includes articles insured
under Scheduled Personal Property Coverage.
3. Subject to the Limit of Liability that applies, we will pay only that part of any covered loss which exceeds
any Policy Deductible (as stated on your Declarations page), unless an additional or different deductible
is specified in the applicable coverage or related endorsement. If an additional or different deductible is
specified in an applicable coverage or related endorsement, then we will pay only that part of any covered
loss which exceeds the additional or different deductible. The Policy Deductible, or other additional or
different deductible, applies to each occurrence to which this coverage applies.
Exclusions
Your Additional & Special Coverages is subject to the following Exclusions:
Please refer to the Section 2 Coverage Exclusions in the Section 2 Policy Packet for exclusions that apply to
your Additional & Special Coverages.
Conditions- including limits
Your Additional & Special Coverages is subject to the following Conditions:
Please refer to the General Policy Conditions, and the Section 2 Coverage Conditions in the Section 2
Policy Packet, for conditions that apply to your Additional & Special Coverages.
This form does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this form.
22218AZ (01-11/21) 1
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
Section 2 Policy Packet
If you have purchased Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, Personal
Property Coverage, Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage, Auxiliary Private Structures
Coverage, Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage, Scheduled Personal Property Coverage,
and/or Additional & Special Coverages, the following limitations, exclusions, and conditions apply to such
coverages, in addition to the General Policy Conditions stated in your General Policy Packet and any
limitations, exclusions, and conditions specified on any coverage form and endorsement.
Loss Settlement
We settle covered losses according to the loss settlement selections you have purchased for each coverage. To
confirm your loss settlement selections, please refer to your current Declarations page. Your Declarations page
lists all of the coverages you have purchased, along with the loss settlement selection applicable to each
coverage. Please refer to the Loss Settlement Selection Form applicable to each coverage for a description of
loss settlement limitations.
Perils Insured Against
We insure covered property against the following peril as indicated by the corresponding peril number 1 shown on
your Declarations page, except as excluded under any Section 2 Coverage Exclusions and subject to all
conditions described in your policy;
1. Risk of Direct Physical Loss
This peril means sudden, accidental, direct, physical damage to covered property, unless specifically
excluded under your policy.
We insure covered property against loss caused by the following perils as identified by the corresponding peril
numbers shown on your Declarations page, except as excluded under any Section 2 Coverage Exclusions and
subject to all conditions described in your policy.
2. Fire or Lightning
3. Removal
This peril means we insure covered property against direct loss from any cause while being removed from
a premises endangered by a peril insured against and for no more than 30 days while removed. This
coverage does not change the Limit of Liability that applies to the property being removed.
4. Windstorm or Hail
This peril does not include loss to the interior of a building or the property contained in a building caused
by rain, snow, sleet, sand, or dust unless the direct force of wind or hail first damages the building
causing an opening in a roof or wall and the rain, snow, sleet, sand, or dust enters through this opening.
The Windstorm or Hail peril also does not include loss caused directly or indirectly by frost, cold
weather, ice (other than hail), snowstorm, or sleet, even if driven by wind.
5. Explosion
This peril means an uncontained burst of energy. This peril does not include loss or damage arising out
of contained explosions, such as gunshots.
6. Riot or Civil Commotion
7. Aircraft
This peril includes self-propelled missiles and spacecraft.
22218AZ (01-11/21) 2
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
8. Vehicles
This peril means impact by a vehicle.
9. Smoke
This peril means sudden and accidental damage from smoke, including the emission or puffback of
smoke or soot from a boiler, furnace, or related equipment. This peril does not include loss caused by
smoke from agricultural smudging or industrial operations.
10. Vandalism and Malicious Mischief
This peril means only willful and malicious damage to or destruction of property.
11. Breakage of Glass or Safety Glazing Material
a. This peril includes:
i. The breakage of glass or safety glazing material that is part of a covered building, storm
door, or storm window; and
ii. The direct physical loss to covered property caused solely by the pieces, fragments, or
splinters of broken glass or safety glazing material that is part of a building, storm door, or
storm window.
b. This peril does not include loss:
i. To covered property which results because the glass or safety glazing material has been
broken, except as provided in a. ii. above; or
ii. On the residence premises if the dwelling has been unoccupied for more than 60
consecutive days immediately before the loss. A dwelling being constructed is not
considered unoccupied.
c. This coverage does not increase the Limit of Liability that applies to the damaged property.
12. Falling Objects
This peril does not include loss to property contained in a building unless the roof or an outside wall of the
building is first damaged by a falling object. Damage to the falling object itself is not included.
13. Weight of Ice, Snow, or Sleet
This peril means weight of ice, snow, or sleet which causes damage to a building or property contained in
the building. This peril does not include loss to a fence, patio, pavement, swimming pool, foundation,
footing, retaining wall, bulkhead, recreational motor vehicles, watercraft, pier, wharf, or dock.
14. Volcanic Eruption
This peril does not include loss caused by earthquake, land shock waves, airborne shock waves, or
tremors. We do pay for your reasonable expense for the removal of ash, dust, or particles from a volcanic
eruption that has caused direct loss to a building or property contained in a fully enclosed building.
15. Sudden and Accidental Tearing Apart
This peril means sudden and accidental tearing apart, cracking, burning, or bulging of a steam or hot
water heating system, an air conditioning or automatic fire protective sprinkler system, or an appliance for
heating water. We do not cover loss caused by or resulting from freezing under this peril.
16. Accidental Discharge or Overflow
a. This peril means accidental discharge or overflow of water or steam from within a plumbing,
heating, air conditioning, automatic fire protective sprinkler system, or household appliance.
b. This peril does not include loss:
i. To the system or appliance from which the water or steam escaped;
ii. Caused by or resulting from freezing except as provided in peril 17. Freezing; or
iii. On the residence premises caused by accidental discharge or overflow which occurs off
the residence premises.
c. In this peril, a plumbing system or household appliance does not include a sump, sump pump or
22218AZ (01-11/21) 3
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
related equipment, roof drain, gutter, downspout, or similar fixtures or equipment.
17. Freezing
a. This peril means freezing of a plumbing, heating, air conditioning, or automatic fire protective
sprinkler system, or a hot tub or spa, or a household appliance; but only if you have used
reasonable care to:
i. Maintain heat in the building; or
ii. Shut off the water supply and drain all systems and appliances of water.
However, if the building is protected by an automatic fire protective sprinkler system, you must
use reasonable care to continue the water supply and maintain heat in the building for coverage
to apply.
b. In this peril, a plumbing system or household appliance does not include a sump, sump pump or
related equipment, roof drain, gutter, downspout, or similar fixtures or equipment.
18. Sudden and Accidental Damage from Artificially Generated Electrical Current
This peril does not include loss to tubes, transistors, electronic components, or circuitry that is a part of
appliances, fixtures, computers, home entertainment units, or other types of electronic apparatus. This
limitation, however, does not apply if there is damage to covered property on the residence premises
caused by one of the perils 2. through 17. which results in an artificially generated electrical current.
19. Theft
a. This peril includes attempted theft and loss of property from a known place when it is likely that
the property has been stolen.
b. This peril does not include loss caused by theft:
i. Committed by an insured;
ii. Of tools, materials, and supplies for use in construction until the building is finished and
occupied;
iii. From that part of a residence premises rented by an insured to someone other than
another insured; or
iv. That occurs off the residence premises of:
1. Trailers and campers;
2. Watercraft of all types and their furnishings, equipment, and outboard engines or
motors; or
3. Property while at any other residence owned by, rented to, or occupied by an
insured, except while an insured is temporarily living there. Property of an
insured who is a student is covered while at the residence the student occupies
to attend school as long as the student has been there at any time during the 60
days immediately before the loss.
Section 2 Coverage Exclusions
If you have purchased Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, Personal
Property Coverage, Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage, Auxiliary Private Structures
Coverage, Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage, Scheduled Personal Property Coverage,
and/or Additional & Special Coverages, the following exclusions apply to such coverages:
A. We do not insure for loss caused directly or indirectly by any of the following. Such loss is excluded
regardless of any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any sequence to the loss. These
exclusions apply whether or not the loss event results in widespread damage or affects a substantial area
or the loss arises from natural, man-made, or external forces, or occurs as a result of any combination of
these.
1. Building Ordinance
Building Ordinance means any ordinance or law:
a. Requiring or regulating the construction, demolition, remodeling, renovation, or repair of
22218AZ (01-11/21) 4
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
property, including removal of any resulting debris;
b. The requirements of which result in a loss in value to property; or
c. Requiring any insured or others to test for, monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat,
detoxify, or neutralize, or in any way respond to, or assess the effects of pollutants or
fungus.
This exclusion, A.1., applies whether or not the property has been physically damaged.
2. Earth Movement
a. Earth Movement means earth movement of any type, including but not limited to:
i. Earthquake. This includes land shock waves or tremors before, during, or after a
volcanic eruption;
ii. Landslide, mudslide, lava flow, or mudflow;
iii. Subsidence or sinkhole; or
iv. Any other earth movement including any sinking, rising, shifting, creeping,
expanding, bulging, cracking, settling, or contracting of the earth.
Direct loss by fire or explosion resulting from earth movement is covered.
b. This exclusion, A.2., does not apply to loss by theft or to losses under Scheduled
Personal Property Coverage.
3. Water Damage
Water Damage means loss from:
a. Flood; surface water (including but not limited to rain water, water flowing naturally on
or near the surface, and water whose flow is artificially altered); waves; tidal water;
overflow of a body of water; storm surge; break, breach, or leak of a levee, dam, or
canal; or spray from any of these, whether or not driven by wind;
b. Water or water-borne material, including sewage, which backs up through sewers or
drains or which overflows or is discharged from a sump, sump pump, or related
equipment;
c. Water or water-borne material, regardless of its source, below the surface of the
ground, including water which exerts pressure on or seeps or leaks through a building,
sidewalk, driveway, foundation, swimming pool, or other structure; or
d. Debris carried by water.
Direct loss by fire, explosion, or theft resulting from water damage is covered. This exclusion,
A.3., does not apply to losses under Scheduled Personal Property Coverage.
4. Power Failure
Power Failure means the failure of power or other utility service if the failure takes place off the
residence premises. But if the failure results in a covered loss on the residence premises, we will
pay for the covered loss.
5. Neglect
Neglect means neglect of an insured to use all reasonable means to save and preserve property
at and after the time of a loss or when the property is in danger of loss.
6. War
War includes the following and any consequence of any of the following:
a. Undeclared war, civil war, insurrection, rebellion, or revolution;
b. Warlike act by a military force or military personnel; or
c. Destruction, seizure, or use for a military purpose.
Discharge of a nuclear weapon will be deemed a warlike act even if accidental.
7. Nuclear Hazard
Nuclear Hazard means any nuclear reaction, radiation, or radioactive contamination, all whether
controlled or uncontrolled or however caused, or any consequence of any of these. However,
direct physical loss to covered property by fire on the residence premises resulting from the
nuclear hazard is covered.
8. Intentional Loss
a. We do not provide coverage for any loss arising out of any act committed by or at the
22218AZ (01-11/21) 5
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
direction of the insured with the intent to cause a loss.
b. However, this exclusion will not apply to deny the insured’s claim for an otherwise
covered property loss under this policy if such loss is caused by an act of domestic
violence by another insured under this policy and the insured making the claim:
i. Did not cooperate in or contribute to the creation of the loss; and
ii. Cooperates in any investigation relating to the loss.
We may apply reasonable standards of proof for such claims.
c. If we pay a claim pursuant to paragraph 8.b., our payment to the insured is limited to
that insured’s insurable interest in the property less any payments we first made to a
mortgagee or other party with a secured interest in the property. In no event will we pay
more than the Limit of Liability.
9. Governmental Action
Governmental Action means the destruction, confiscation, or seizure of property by any
governmental or public authority.
This exclusion, A.9., does not apply to such acts ordered by any governmental or public authority
that are taken at the time of a fire to prevent its spread, if the loss caused by fire would be
covered under this policy.
10. Collapse
Except as provided in 1.b. Collapse under Additional & Special Coverages.
11. Freezing of Plumbing
Freezing of a plumbing, heating, air conditioning, automatic fire protective sprinkler system, or
household appliance, or by discharge, leakage, or overflow from within the system or appliance
caused by freezing. This provision does not apply if you have used reasonable care to:
a. Maintain heat in the building; or
b. Shut off the water supply and drain all systems and appliances of water.
However, if the building is protected by an automatic fire protective sprinkler system, you must
use reasonable care to continue the water supply and maintain heat in the building for coverage
to apply. For purposes of this provision, a plumbing system or household appliance does not
include a sump, sump pump or related equipment, roof drain, gutter, downspout, or similar
fixtures or equipment.
12. Freezing, Thawing, Pressure, or Weight
Freezing, thawing, pressure, or weight of water, ice, snow, and/or sleet whether driven by wind or
not, to a:
a. Swimming pool, including the filtration and circulation systems, fence, pavement, or
patio;
b. Footing, foundation, bulkhead, wall, or any other structure or device that supports all or
part of a building, or other structure;
c. Retaining wall or bulkhead that does not support all or part of a building or other
structure;
d. Pier, wharf, or dock; or
e. Recreational motor vehicles or watercraft.
13. Theft of Tools
Theft of tools, materials, and supplies for use in construction until the building is finished and
occupied. This exclusion does not apply to tools specifically insured under Scheduled Personal
Property Coverage.
14. Unoccupied Residence
Vandalism, malicious mischief, or theft, and any ensuing loss caused by any intentional and
wrongful act committed in the course of the vandalism, malicious mischief, or theft, if the
residence has been unoccupied for more than 60 consecutive days immediately before the loss.
A residence being constructed is not considered unoccupied.
15. Fungus, Wet or Dry Rot, or Bacteria
The existence, growth, or dispersal of fungus, wet or dry rot, or bacteria. This includes, but is not
22218AZ (01-11/21) 6
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
limited to:
a. Any loss of use or delay in rebuilding, repairing, or replacing covered property,
including any associated cost or expense, due to interference at the residence
premises or location of the rebuilding, repair, or replacement, by fungus, wet or dry rot,
or bacteria;
b. Any remediation of fungus, wet or dry rot, or bacteria, including the cost to:
i. Remove the fungus, wet or dry rot, or bacteria from covered property or to repair,
restore, or replace that property; or
ii. Tear out and replace any part of the building or other property as needed to gain
access to the fungus, wet or dry rot, or bacteria; or
c. The cost of any testing or monitoring of air or property to determine the type, absence,
presence, or extent of fungus, wet or dry rot, or bacteria, whether performed prior to,
during or after removal, repair, restoration, or replacement of covered property.
16. Seepage or Leakage
Continuous or repeated seepage or leakage of water or steam from a:
a. Heating, air conditioning, automatic fire protective sprinkler system, household
appliance; or
b. Plumbing system, including from, within, or around any shower stall, shower bath, tub
installation, or other plumbing fixture, including their walls, ceilings, or floors.
We also do not cover loss to the system or appliance from which the water or steam escaped.
17. Controlled Substance
Loss or damage arising out of the use, sale, delivery, transfer, possession, growing, production,
processing, warehousing, transportation, or manufacturing, by any insured or with any insured’s
knowledge, of a controlled substance, as defined by the Federal Food and Drug Law at 21
U.S.C.A. Sections 811 and 812 (as amended), regardless of whether the controlled substance is
legal under any state law (for example: marijuana).
18. Virus
The existence, spread, or dispersal of a virus or other microorganism that includes or is capable
of inducing physical distress, illness, or disease. This includes, but is not limited to:
a. Any loss of use or delay in rebuilding, repairing, or replacing covered property,
including any associated cost or expense, due to interference at the residence
premises or location of the rebuilding, repair, or replacement, by a virus or other
microorganism;
b. Any remediation of a virus or other microorganism, including the cost to:
i. Remove the virus or other microorganism from covered property or to repair,
restore, or replace that property; or
ii. Tear out and replace any part of the building or other property as needed to gain
access to the virus or other microorganism; or
c. The cost of any testing or monitoring of air or property to determine the type, absence,
presence, or extent of a virus or other microorganism, whether performed prior to,
during or after removal, repair, restoration, or replacement of covered property.
19. Metal Roof Coverings
We do not cover cosmetic loss or damage to metal roof coverings caused by hail. As used in this
exclusion, cosmetic loss or damage means damage that alters the physical appearance of the
metal roof covering but does not result in damage that allows the penetration of water through the
metal roof covering, or does not result in the failure of the metal roof covering to keep out
elements over an extended period of time. As used in this exclusion, metal roof coverings include
the metal roofing material exposed to the weather, the underlayment applied for moisture
protection, and all flashings required in the replacement of a metal roof covering.
20. Matching
The cost to repair or replace the undamaged portion of covered property for the purpose of
matching the color, texture, or appearance of the replaced or repaired property.
22218AZ (01-11/21) 7
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
21. Any of the following:
a. Wear and tear, marring, deterioration. This exclusion 21.a. does not apply to ensuing
direct loss by fire;
b. Mechanical breakdown, latent defect, inherent vice, or any quality in property that
causes it to damage or destroy itself. This exclusion 21.b. does not apply to ensuing
direct loss by fire;
c. Smog, rust, or other corrosion. This exclusion 21.c. does not apply to ensuing direct
loss by fire;
d. Smoke from agricultural smudging or industrial operations;
e. Discharge, dispersal, seepage, migration, release, or escape of pollutants, unless the
discharge, dispersal, seepage, migration, release, or escape is itself caused by fire on
the residence premises;
f. Settling, shrinking, bulging, or expansion, including resultant cracking, of bulkheads,
pavements, patios, footings, foundations, walls, floors, roofs, or ceilings;
g. Birds, vermin, rodents, or insects. Additionally, in no event will we pay for damage
caused by raccoons or bats. This exclusion 21.g. does not apply to ensuing direct loss
by fire;
h. Animals owned or kept by:
i. An insured, or
ii. Roomers, boarders, or other tenants.
This exclusion 21.h. does not apply to ensuing direct loss by fire;
i. Pressure from or presence of tree, shrub, or plant roots;
j. Any property while:
i. Operated in any spontaneous or prearranged race, competitive speed or strength
test, or preparation for a race, speed, or strength test and regardless of whether
the race or test had ended before the loss occurred;
ii. Used for hire or charter; or
iii. Used in any unlawful trade or transportation; or
k. Street creeping.
B. We do not insure for loss to covered property caused by any of the following. However, any ensuing loss
to covered property not precluded by any other provision in this policy is covered.
1. Weather conditions. However, this exclusion only applies if weather conditions contribute in any
way with a cause or event excluded in A. above to produce the loss.
2. Acts or decisions, including the failure to act or decide, of any person, group, organization, or
governmental body.
3. Faulty, inadequate, or defective:
a. Planning, zoning, development, surveying, or siting;
b. Design, specifications, workmanship, repair, construction, renovation, remodeling,
grading, or compaction;
c. Materials used in repair, construction, renovation, or remodeling; or
d. Maintenance;
of part or all of any property whether on or off the residence premises.
Section 2 Coverage Conditions
In addition to the General Policy Conditions, if you have purchased Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners,
Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, Personal Property Coverage, Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental
Value Coverage, Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage, Structures Away from Residence Premises
Coverage, Scheduled Personal Property Coverage, and/or Additional & Special Coverages, the following
conditions also apply to such coverages:
A. Insurable Interest and Limit of Liability
22218AZ (01-11/21) 8
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
Even if more than one person has an insurable interest in the property covered, we will only be liable to
an insured in any one occurrence for the lesser of the following:
1. The amount of such insured’s interest at the time of loss; or
2. The applicable Limit of Liability.
B. Duties after Loss
In case of a loss, we have no duty to provide coverage under this policy if the failure of any insured to
comply with the following duties is prejudicial to us. These duties must be performed either by you, any
insured, or a representative of either:
1. Give prompt notice to us or our agent;
2. Notify the police if the loss is suspected to be in violation of a law;
3. Promptly identify and give notice to any other insurer who might provide insurance for a loss;
4. Notify the credit card or electronic fund transfer card or access device company in case of loss as
provided for under the Credit Card and Forgery Coverage of your Additional & Special
Coverages;
5. Protect the property from further damage. If repairs to the property are required, you must:
a. Make reasonable and necessary temporary repairs to protect the property; and
b. Keep an accurate record of repair expenses;
6. Cooperate with us in the investigation of a claim;
7. Prepare an inventory of damaged or stolen property showing the quantity, description, actual
cash value, and amount of loss. Attach all bills, receipts, and related documents that justify the
figures in the inventory;
8. As often as we reasonably require:
a. Show the damaged property;
b. Provide us with records and documents we request and permit us to make copies; and
c. Submit to examinations under oath, outside the presence of all other insureds, and sign
the same within a reasonable amount of time of our request, after having been
informed:
i. Of your right to counsel; and
ii. That your answers may be used against you in later civil proceedings or criminal
proceedings;
9. Send to us, within 60 days after our request, your signed, sworn proof of loss which sets forth, to
the best of your knowledge and belief:
a. The time and cause of loss;
b. The interests of all insureds and all others in the property involved and all liens on the
property;
c. Other insurance which may cover the loss;
d. Changes in title or occupancy of the property during the term of the policy;
e. Specifications of damaged buildings and detailed repair estimates;
f. The inventory of damaged property described in 7. above;
g. Receipts for additional living expenses incurred and records that support the fair rental
value loss; and
h. Evidence or affidavit that supports a claim under the Credit Card and Forgery
Coverage of your Additional & Special Coverages stating the amount and cause of
loss; and
10. Notwithstanding any other provisions in your policy, all claims under your policy must be brought
within one year of the date of occurrence.
C. Appraisal
If you and we fail to agree on the amount of loss, either may demand in writing an appraisal of the loss. In
this event, each party will choose a competent and impartial appraiser within 20 days after receiving
written request from the other. The two appraisers will choose an impartial umpire, who shall be
competent in the trade or skill necessary to assess the loss. If they cannot agree upon an umpire within
22218AZ (01-11/21) 9
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
15 days, you or we may request that the choice of an impartial umpire be made by a judge of a court of
record in the state where the residence premises is located. The appraisers will separately set the
amount of loss. If the appraisers submit a written report of an agreement between them to us, the amount
agreed upon will set the amount of loss and be final. If they fail to agree, they will submit their differences
to the umpire. A decision agreed to by any two will then set the amount of loss to each item and be final.
Each party will:
1. Pay for its own appraiser; and
2. Bear the other expenses of the appraisal and umpire, equally.
An impartial party may not have any direct or indirect material interest in the outcome of the matter.
Before accepting appointment, your appraiser and the umpire must certify that they are impartial in the
matter, and they also must disclose any substantial relationships they have with any other party to the
appraisal. No questions of law will be determined by appraisal and no appraisal will be conducted on a
class wide or class representative basis. We do not waive any of our rights under this policy by agreeing
to an appraisal.
D. Other Insurance and Service Agreement
If a loss covered by this policy is also covered by:
1. Other insurance, we will pay only the proportion of the loss that the Limit of Liability that applies
under this policy bears to the total amount of insurance covering the loss; or
2. A service agreement, this insurance is excess over any amounts payable under any such
agreement. Service agreement means a service plan, property restoration plan, home warranty,
or other similar service warranty agreement, even if it is characterized as insurance.
E. Suit Against Us
No action can be brought against us unless there has been full compliance with all of the terms of this
policy and the action is started within one year after the date of occurrence.
F. Our Option
We may repair or replace any part of the damaged or stolen property with similar property. We may take
all or any part of the property at the agreed or appraised value.
G. Loss Payment
We will adjust all losses with you. We will pay you unless some other person is named in the policy or is
legally entitled to receive payment. Loss will be payable 30 days after we receive your proof of loss and:
1. Reach an agreement with you;
2. There is an entry of a final judgment; or
3. There is a filing of an appraisal award with us.
H. Abandonment of Property
We need not accept any property abandoned by an insured.
I. No Benefit to Bailee
We will not recognize any assignment or grant any coverage that benefits a person or organization
holding, storing, or moving property for a fee regardless of any other provision of this policy.
J. Recovered Property
If you or we recover any property for which we have made payment under this policy, you or we will notify
the other of the recovery. At your option, the property will be returned to or retained by you or it will
become our property. If the recovered property is returned to or retained by you, the loss payment will be
adjusted based on the amount you received for the recovered property.
K. Volcanic Eruption Period
One or more volcanic eruptions that occur within a 72-hour period will be considered as one volcanic
22218AZ (01-11/21) 10
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
eruption.
L. Concealment or Fraud
We provide coverage to no insureds under this policy if, in connection with a loss, any insured has:
1. Intentionally concealed or misrepresented any material fact or circumstance;
2. Engaged in fraudulent conduct; or
3. Made false statements of fact which, if known to us, would have caused us not to issue the policy
relating to a claim under this policy.
M. Duplicate Payments
The amount we pay you for any covered loss:
1. Will not duplicate any amount we have already paid you for any previous loss or losses to the
same damaged property when such property has not been repaired or replaced; and
2. Will be reduced by the amount we previously paid you that you have not actually spent to repair
or replace such property.
N. Additional Insured
Whenever the word insured is used in this policy, the term also includes the person or organization
named on your Declarations page as Additional Insured. This definition is limited to the following:
1. Under Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, Auxiliary
Private Structures Coverage, and Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage
only, payment will be made to you and the Additional Insured according to the respective financial
interests.
O. Standard Mortgage Clause
The word mortgagee includes trustee.
1. If a mortgagee is named in this policy, any loss payable under Dwelling Coverage-
Homeowners, Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage, or
Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage will be paid to the mortgagee and you,
as interests appear. If more than one mortgagee is named, the order of payment will be the same
as the order of precedence of the mortgages.
2. If we deny your claim, that denial will not apply to a valid claim of the mortgagee, if the
mortgagee:
a. Notifies us of any change in ownership, occupancy, or substantial change in risk of
which the mortgagee is aware;
b. Pays any premium due under this policy on demand if you have neglected to pay the
premium; and
c. Submits a signed, sworn statement of loss within 60 days after receiving notice from us
of your failure to do so. Paragraphs C. Appraisal, E. Suit Against Us and G. Loss
Payment under Section 2 Coverage Conditions for an applicable coverage also
apply to the mortgagee.
3. If we decide to cancel or not to renew this policy, the mortgagee will be notified at least 10 days
before the date cancellation or nonrenewal takes effect.
4. If we pay the mortgagee for any loss and deny payment to you:
a. We are subrogated to all the rights of the mortgagee granted under the mortgage on
the property; or
b. At our option, we may pay to the mortgagee the whole principal on the mortgage plus
any accrued interest. In this event, we will receive a full assignment and transfer of the
mortgage and all securities held as collateral to the mortgage debt.
5. Subrogation will not impair the right of the mortgagee to recover the full amount of the
mortgagee's claim.
6. Nothing in this Standard Mortgage Clause changes the Perils Insured Against or the property
covered.
22218AZ (01-11/21) 11
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
P. Loss Payable Clause
If your Declarations page shows a loss payee payable for certain listed insured property, under Dwelling
Coverage- Homeowners, Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, Personal Property Coverage,
Additional Living Expense & Fair Rental Value Coverage, Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage,
Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage, Scheduled Personal Property Coverage, or
Additional & Special Coverages, the definition of insured is changed to include that loss payee with
respect to that property. If we decide to cancel or not to renew this policy, that loss payee will be notified
in writing.
Q. Builders Risk Clause
This policy may, if listed on your Declarations page as Builders Risk, cover a dwelling under renovation
or construction. If so, until the dwelling is completed and occupied, the Limit of Liability in force shall be
the lessor of the amount necessary to replace the dwelling to its condition at the time of loss, but not
greater than the corresponding Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners or Dwelling Coverage-
Condominium Limit of Liability shown on your Declarations page. Loss Settlement Selection Form 3
and Loss Settlement Selection Form 4 do not increase your coverage under this provision.
R. Our Right to Rescind this Policy
We may rescind this policy when any insured has:
1. Intentionally concealed or misrepresented any material fact or circumstance;
2. Made false statements of fact which, if known to us, would have caused us not to issue the policy;
and
3. Engaged in fraudulent conduct
relating to the application for or continuation of this policy.
22213 (00-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Loss Settlement Selection Form 4:
Extended Replacement Cost
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in General Definitions or in the Definitions section for any applicable coverage.
To determine whether Loss Settlement Selection Form 4 applies to your covered loss, please refer to your
current Declarations page. Your Declarations page lists the coverages you have purchased and may list
additional coverage-specific information such as the Loss Settlement Selection Form, Perils Insured Against,
and Limits of Liability you have chosen for each coverage. However, please always refer to this form for complete
details.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Effect of this loss settlement form on your policy
1. If you have purchased Loss Settlement Selection Form 4 and when “Loss Settlement Selection Form 4:
Extended Replacement Cost” is listed for a coverage on your Declarations page, we will settle covered
losses under that coverage as described below:
a. We pay replacement cost unless otherwise stated below. The building or structure must be
repaired or replaced with similar construction and for the same use on the residence premises.
You will have one year from the date of loss to repair or replace the damaged property. Actual
repair or replacement of damaged property within one year of the date of loss is a condition
precedent to recovery of replacement cost.
b. We will not pay more than the actual cash value of the damage or the applicable Limit of Liability
as shown in your Declarations page, whichever is less, until actual repair or replacement is
complete, unless:
i. The replacement cost is less than $2,500;
ii. The replacement cost is less than 5% of the applicable Limit of Liability; and
iii. You provide notice of the loss to us within one year of the date of the loss.
With respect to losses to buildings as a result of the peril Windstorm or Hail, we will not pay
more than actual cash value until actual repair or replacement is complete, unless:
i. The replacement cost is less than $5,000; and
ii. You provide notice of the loss to us within one year of the date of the loss.
You will have one year from the date of loss to repair or replace the damaged property and
request the difference between actual cash value and replacement cost. Actual repair or
replacement of damaged property within one year of the date of loss is a condition precedent to
recovery of replacement cost.
c. If a roof schedule is indicated on your Declarations page, then for any applicable Windstorm or
Hail losses, we will only pay actual cash value using the appropriate percentage for depreciation,
as determined by the roof schedule outlined in paragraph 4. below, for your roof. The age of the
roof will be solely determined by us. If your roof contains more than one type of roofing material,
we will settle the loss based on the predominant material of your roof.
d. We will only pay actual cash value for damage to wood fences.
e. We will only pay actual cash value for buildings or structures that are rebuilt at a new location.
22213 (00-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 2
2. Under no circumstances do we pay for:
a. The increased costs necessary to comply with the enforcement of any building code, ordinance,
or law, except to the extent coverage is provided under 1.e. Building Ordinance in your
Additional & Special Coverages;
b. Any actual or perceived decrease in value, however measured, resulting from loss to or repair of
your damaged property;
c. Any diminution of value; or
d. The cost to repair or replace the undamaged portion of covered property for the purpose of
matching the color, texture, or appearance of the replaced or repaired property.
3. If there is a covered loss to the building insured under Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners that exceeds
the Limit of Liability shown on your Declarations page for Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, we will
increase the Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners Limit of Liability to equal the current replacement cost of
the building up to a maximum of 120% of the Limit of Liability stated on your Declarations page. This
increase in coverage does not apply to a Location Insured that is (1) not your principal residence for
more than 60 consecutive days immediately before the loss and (2) a Location Insured that has been
rented to others. This coverage does not increase any coverage provided under 1.e. Building Ordinance
in your Additional & Special Coverages.
The following change applies to Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners only:
Under the Section 2 Coverage Conditions in your Section 2 Policy Packet, paragraph A. Insurable
Interest and Limit of Liability is deleted and replaced by the following:
A. Insurable Interest and Limit of Liability
1. Even if more than one person has an insurable interest in the property covered, we will only be
liable to an insured in any one occurrence for the lesser of the following:
i. The amount of such insured’s interest at the time of loss; or
ii. The applicable Limit of Liability. However, we will settle covered losses to the building or
buildings insured under Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners at replacement cost up to a
maximum 120% of the Limit of Liability shown on your Declarations page.
2. You must notify us within 90 days of the start of:
i. Any improvement(s), addition(s), or remodeling of the dwelling, which immediately upon
completion, will increase the replacement cost of the dwelling by 5% or more; and
ii. The continuation of any improvement(s), addition(s), or remodeling of the dwelling that
began within 90 days of i. above, which immediately upon completion and when valued
together with i. above will have the cumulative effect of increasing the replacement cost
of the dwelling by 5% or more.
You must also pay any resulting additional premium. The Limit of Liability will be reduced to a
maximum of 100% of the Limit of Liability shown on your Declarations page if you failed to notify
us of any such improvement, addition, or remodeling commenced during this or any past policy
period, and we will not be liable for more than the Limit of Liability shown on your Declarations
page.
4. Roof Schedule
Age of
Roof
Composite
Shingle
Architectural
Composite
Shingle
Slate Tile Wood Metal Built-up/
Membrane
All
Other
0 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
1 96.3% 97.8% 98.7% 98.0% 97.5% 98.7% 96.7% 97.0%
22213 (00-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 3
2 92.7% 95.5% 97.3% 96.0% 95.0% 97.3% 93.3% 94.0%
3 89.0% 93.3% 96.0% 94.0% 92.5% 96.0% 90.0% 91.0%
4 85.3% 91.0% 94.7% 92.0% 90.0% 94.7% 86.7% 88.0%
5 81.7% 88.8% 93.4% 90.0% 87.5% 93.4% 83.4% 85.0%
6 78.0% 86.5% 92.0% 88.0% 85.0% 92.0% 80.0% 82.0%
7 74.3% 84.3% 90.7% 86.0% 82.5% 90.7% 76.7% 79.0%
8 70.6% 82.0% 89.4% 84.0% 80.0% 89.4% 73.4% 76.0%
9 67.0% 79.8% 88.0% 82.0% 77.5% 88.0% 70.0% 73.0%
10 63.3% 77.5% 86.7% 80.0% 75.0% 86.7% 66.7% 70.0%
11 59.6% 75.3% 85.4% 78.0% 72.5% 85.4% 63.4% 67.0%
12 56.0% 73.0% 84.0% 76.0% 70.0% 84.0% 60.0% 64.0%
13 52.3% 70.8% 82.7% 74.0% 67.5% 82.7% 56.7% 61.0%
14 48.6% 68.5% 81.4% 72.0% 65.0% 81.4% 53.4% 58.0%
15 45.0% 66.3% 80.1% 70.0% 62.5% 80.1% 50.1% 55.0%
16 41.3% 64.0% 78.7% 68.0% 60.0% 78.7% 46.7% 52.0%
17 37.6% 61.8% 77.4% 66.0% 57.5% 77.4% 43.4% 49.0%
18 33.9% 59.5% 76.1% 64.0% 55.0% 76.1% 40.1% 46.0%
19 30.3% 57.3% 74.7% 62.0% 52.5% 74.7% 36.7% 43.0%
20 26.6% 55.0% 73.4% 60.0% 50.0% 73.4% 33.4% 40.0%
21 22.9% 52.8% 72.1% 58.0% 47.5% 72.1% 30.1% 37.0%
22 20.0% 50.5% 70.7% 56.0% 45.0% 70.7% 26.7% 34.0%
23 20.0% 48.3% 69.4% 54.0% 42.5% 69.4% 23.4% 31.0%
24 20.0% 46.0% 68.1% 52.0% 40.0% 68.1% 20.1% 28.0%
25 20.0% 43.8% 66.8% 50.0% 37.5% 66.8% 20.0% 25.0%
26 20.0% 41.5% 65.4% 48.0% 35.0% 65.4% 20.0% 22.0%
27 20.0% 39.3% 64.1% 46.0% 32.5% 64.1% 20.0% 20.0%
28 20.0% 37.0% 62.8% 44.0% 30.0% 62.8% 20.0% 20.0%
29 20.0% 34.8% 61.4% 42.0% 27.5% 61.4% 20.0% 20.0%
30+ 20.0% 32.5% 60.1% 40.0% 25.0% 60.1% 20.0% 20.0%
This form does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this form.
22214 (00-05/19) 1
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
Loss Settlement Selection Form 5:
Actual Cash Value
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions section for any applicable
coverage.
To determine whether Loss Settlement Selection Form 5 applies to your covered loss, please refer to your
current Declarations page. Your Declarations page lists the coverages you have purchased and may list
additional coverage-specific information such as the Loss Settlement Selection Form, Perils Insured Against,
and Limits of Liability you have chosen for each coverage. However, please always refer to this form for complete
details.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Effect of this loss settlement form on your policy
If you have purchased Loss Settlement Selection Form 5 and when “Loss Settlement Form 5: Actual Cash
Value” is listed for a coverage on your Declarations page, we will settle covered losses under that coverage
according to actual cash value.
Under no circumstances do we pay for:
1. The increased costs necessary to comply with the enforcement of any building code, ordinance, or law;
2. Any actual or perceived decrease in value, however measured, resulting from loss to or repair of your
damaged property;
3. The cost to repair or replace the undamaged portion of covered property for the purpose of matching the
color, texture, or appearance of the replaced or repaired property; or
4. Any diminution of value.
For covered recreational motor vehicles and watercraft, “materials of like kind and quality” include parts from
original equipment manufacturers as well as parts manufactured from other sources that are of comparable
quality.
This form does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this form.
Page 1 of 3 101071-09-201903
PO Box 2000
Bloomington, IL 61702-2000
Customer Privacy Notice
FACTS
What?
Why?
How?
What does COUNTRY Financial® do with your personal information?
The types of personal information we collect from you and from outside sources and share depend on the
product or service you have with us. This information can include data such as name, address, phone
number, driver’s license number, Social Security Number, Internet cookies, investment experience, assets
and transactions.
Financial companies choose how they share your personal information. Federal law gives consumers the
right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal law also requires us to tell you how we collect, share, and
protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to understand what we do.
All financial companies need to share customers’ personal information to run their everyday business. In
the section below, we list the reasons financial companies can share their customers’ personal information;
the reasons COUNTRY Financial® chooses to share; and whether you can limit this sharing.
Can COUNTRY
Financial share?
Can you limit
Reasons we can share your personal information this sharing?
For our everyday business purposes
For joint marketing with other financial companies
For our affiliates’ everyday business purposes
For non-affiliates to market to you
For our marketing purposes
For our affiliates’ everyday business purposes
For our family of affiliates to market to you
such as to process your transactions, service your products and services,
manage your accounts, or respond to court orders and legal investigations
to offer our products and services to you
information about your transactions and experiences
using certain financial information
(see “Who we are” for affiliate listing)
information about your creditworthiness
to offer products that may benefit you or help you manage and protect your
financial security (by providing only contact information)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
To limit our sharing
To limit our sharing by opting out, the following apply:
Do not share information about my creditworthiness with your affiliates for their everyday business purposes.
Do not allow your affiliates to use certain financial information to market to me.
Do not share my personal information with non-affiliates to market their products and services to me.
To opt-out, please visit us online: https://www.countryfinancial.com/PrivacyNoticeOptOut
or
call toll-free at 1-866-COUNTRY (1-866-268-6879)
If you have previously opted out of data sharing with COUNTRY Financial®, there is no need to submit
another request. Your previous opt-out will be honored at a household level.
(Continued on Page 2)
Page 2 of 3 101071-09-201903
Who we are
Who is providing
this notice?
How does COUNTRY
Financial collect my
personal information?
What happens when I
limit sharing for an
account I hold jointly
with someone else?
How does COUNTRY
Financial protect my
personal information?
Why can’t I limit all
sharing?
This privacy notice is provided by:
We collect your COUNTRY Financial® personal information, for example, when you
l apply for an insurance policy or open a financial account
l pay a bill
We also collect your personal information from others, such as credit bureaus, affiliates or
other companies.
Your choices will apply to everyone on your policy or account.
COUNTRY Mutual Insurance Company®
COUNTRY Casualty Insurance Company®
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
COUNTRY Life Insurance Company®
COUNTRY Investors Life Assurance Company®
To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use security
measures that comply with federal law. These measures include computer safeguards and
secured files and buildings.
Federal law gives you the right to limit only
l sharing for affiliates’ everyday business purposes - information about your creditworthiness
l affiliates from using certain information, such as credit or financial information, to market to
you
l sharing for non-affiliates to market to you
State laws and individual companies may give you additional rights to limit sharing.
See below for more on your rights under state law.
COUNTRY® Capital Management Company
COUNTRY Trust Bank®
Cotton States Life Insurance CompanySM
CC Services, Inc.
Definitions
Affiliates
Joint marketing
Non-affiliates
A formal agreement between non-affiliated financial companies that together market financial
products or services to you.
l Our joint marketing partners may include other insurance companies, banks, or
financial services providers.
Companies related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and non-financial
companies.
l COUNTRY Financial’s affiliates include those companies that control, are controlled by or
under common control with the companies mentioned above.
Companies not related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and non-financial
companies.
l Non-affiliates we share with may include providers of products or services that we
believe may be of interest to you, or other insurance or financial services providers.
Questions? Call toll-free at 1-866-COUNTRY (1-866-268-6879) or visit us at www.countryfinancial.com.
Please note: For circumstances where you can limit our sharing, if you are a new customer we may begin sharing
your information 30 days from the date we sent this notice. When you are no longer our customer, we may continue
to share your information as described in this notice. However, you can contact us at any time to limit our sharing.
To limit our sharing (Continued from Page 1)
Page 3 of 3 101071-09-201903
SIPC Notice to customers of COUNTRY® Capital Management Company (CCMC)
You may obtain information about the Security Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), including the SIPC brochure
regarding investor protection, by visiting SIPC’s website at www.sipc.org or calling SIPC at (202) 371-8300.
Notice to 529 College Savings Plan customers of CCMC
CCMC is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
(MSRB). An investor brochure describing protections that may be provided by MSRB rules and how to file a complaint
with an appropriate regulatory authority is available at www.msrb.org
Other important information
Nevada Residents
Under state law, we are providing this notice to inform you that you have the option to be placed on our
internal “do not call” list. To be placed on the list, you may submit a request using one of the following options:
l Submit a written request to: COUNTRY Financial Do Not Call List
Attn: Agency Promotions & Co-Op
PO Box 2020
Bloomington, IL 61702-2020
l Contact your local COUNTRY Financial representative.
l Call 1-866-COUNTRY and speak with a customer service representative.
l Visit www.countryfinancial.com, click on the Contact Us tab, and send us an email.
Please be sure to include your name, address and phone number that you would like to include on our list.
If you have questions, you may also contact the Nevada Attorney General’s office at:
Office of the Nevada Attorney General
Bureau of Consumer Protection
555 E. Washington Avenue, Suite 3900
Las Vegas, NV 89101
Phone (702) 486-3132
Email BCPINFO@ag.state.nv.us
Please note that our internal “do not call” list is limited to telephone solicitation calls. We may still contact you
about your COUNTRY products, insurance claims, and other service-related matters.
California, Montana and Vermont Residents
We do not share your personal information with non-affiliated parties for their marketing purposes.
101071-09-201903
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
1701 Towanda Ave.
PO Box 2100
Bloomington, IL 61702-2100
866-COUNTRY
countryfinancial.com
21906AZ (01-11/21) Page 1 of 2
Peter Cat
3414 S Marissa Dr
Tucson, AZ 85730-3103
Notice of Adverse Underwriting Decision
We value you as our client and appreciate your choice to insure your property with the COUNTRY Financial group.
You get more than a policy when you purchase insurance from us. You're backed by an organization with people
dedicated to your financial security and committed to maintaining manageable insurance costs for valuable clients like
you. You also get the freedom to choose from a variety of unique coverages many others in the industry don't offer.
We encourage you to review your policy and coverage options with your representative. This will help ensure you've
selected the appropriate coverage for all your special protection needs. Your choices, along with the risk you're willing to
assume, help determine your policy premium cost.
We use many factors to reflect your specific situation and determine your insurance rate. Some of these factors include:
· The insurance amount on your policy, deductible you chose and other coverage options you select,
· Credit history and claims history information obtained from consumer reporting agencies, and
· Safety devices such as smoke detectors, fire extinguishers and burglar alarms.
Like most insurance companies, we use these factors along with several others to help predict the possibility of a loss
each client faces. This allows us to offer lower rates to those less likely to have future losses. We know everyone's
likelihood of having a loss is different.
Your Right to a Free Report
As mentioned, information from your consumer reports, such as your credit and/or claims history helped determine your
insurance rate. LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc. provided us with information in your consumer report(s). With the premium
levels we have available, it's likely your responsible use of credit resulted in a very competitive rate. However, since you
currently are receiving a rate other than our lowest available, we are required to send you this notice.
We recommend reviewing the information in your credit report periodically. Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, this notice
entitles you to obtain a free copy of the report(s) that we obtained within the next 60 days by:
· sending a written request to:
LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc.
P.O. Box 105108
Atlanta, GA 30348-5108
· calling LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc. at 800-456-6004, or
· visiting consumerdisclosure.com
When requesting your consumer report(s), you may be asked to provide personal information such as your full name,
address, driver's license number and Social Security number in order to ensure you receive the correct report.
The factors on your credit report that contributed, in part, to your property insurance rate are:
· CUSTOM MODEL NOT AVAILABLE. FILE CANNOT BE SCORED.
If you disagree with the accuracy of information provided in your consumer report(s), please contact LexisNexis Risk
Solutions, Inc. to initiate the dispute resolution process. While LexisNexis Risk Solutions, Inc. does provide us with your
consumer report(s), they do not determine our underwriting guidelines or rates and cannot provide you with the specific
reasons regarding our policy decisions.
21906AZ (01-11/21) Page 2 of 2
If you write us within 90 business days from the date this notice was mailed, we will furnish, in accordance with applicable
law:
· The specific items of personal and privileged information supporting our action, and
· The names and addresses of the institutions supplying this information, if applicable.
A right of access and correction exists as to personal information we may collect. We strive to keep our records of your
information completely accurate. If you see any error, please call 866-COUNTRY (866-268-6879), and we will promptly
address any inaccuracy that may have occurred.
We appreciate the opportunity to keep you informed about your policy and will continue to do our best at protecting your
financial security.
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
Bloomington, IL
20301 (00-05/19) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Additional Insured Endorsement
This endorsement changes your policy and includes limitations and restrictions. Please
read it carefully.
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in General Definitions in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions section of
your coverage form(s).
To confirm you have the Additional Insured Endorsement, please refer to your current Declarations page.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Effect of endorsement on your policy
If you have purchased the Additional Insured Endorsement, the changes described below apply to your policy.
Under General Definitions (Includes Limitations), paragraph d. of item 7. Insured is deleted and replaced with:
d. Under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises, Liability Coverage- Premises Only, and
Medical Payments Coverage of this policy, the person or organization named on your
Declarations page as an Additional Insured. The Additional Insured is only deemed an insured
with respect to a loss or losses arising out of (1) the ownership, maintenance, and use of the
insured location and (2) the named insured’s negligence. Coverage does not apply to bodily injury
to a residence employee arising out of or in the course of the residence employee’s employment
by the Additional Insured.
This endorsement does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this
endorsement.
20312 (02-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Basic Sump Pump Failure/
Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement
This endorsement changes your policy and includes limitations and restrictions. Please
read it carefully.
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in General Definitions in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions section of
your coverage form(s).
To confirm you have the Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement,
please refer to your current Declarations page.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Effect of endorsement on your policy (includes limitations)
If you have purchased the Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement for
any of your covered property, we cover direct physical loss to that property resulting from sump pump failure as
defined below.
When listed under Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners or Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, this Basic Sump
Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement applies to the following coverages
purchased and in effect at the time of loss:
• Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, for the structure described on your Declarations page to which this
Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement specifically applies.
• Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, for the structure described on your Declarations page to which this
Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement specifically applies.
• Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage
• Additionally, Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement only
applies to the following property covered by Personal Property Coverage, which is at the residence
premises:
1. Clothes washers and dryers
2. Refrigerators
3. Food freezers and food in them
4. Dehumidifiers
When listed under Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage, this Basic Sump Pump
Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement applies to property covered by the following
coverages purchased and in effect at the time of loss:
• Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage, for the structure described on your
Declarations page to which this Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage
Endorsement specifically applies.
• Additionally, Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement only
applies to the following property covered by Personal Property Coverage, which is at the structure
described on your Declarations page, to which Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage
and this Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement specifically
applies:
1. Clothes washers and dryers
20312 (02-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 2
2. Refrigerators
3. Food freezers and food in them
4. Dehumidifiers
When listed under Personal Property Coverage, this Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain
Coverage Endorsement applies to property covered by the following coverages purchased and in effect at the
time of loss:
• Personal Property Coverage, but only to the following property covered by Personal Property
Coverage, which is at the residence premises:
1. Clothes washers and dryers
2. Refrigerators
3. Food freezers and food in them
4. Dehumidifiers
Definitions
1. Sump pump failure means water or water-borne material, including sewage, which backs up through
sewers or drains or which overflows or is discharged from a sump, sump pump, or related equipment that
is located inside the structure on the insured location to which this endorsement applies.
Exclusions
Your Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement is subject to the
following Exclusions:
Please refer to the Section 2 Coverage Exclusions in the Section 2 Policy Packet for exclusions that apply. In
addition, the following Exclusions apply:
A. We will not pay for loss resulting directly or indirectly from any of the following. Such loss is excluded
regardless of any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any sequence to the loss. These
exclusions apply whether or not the loss event results in widespread damage or affects a substantial
area.
1. Flood, surface water (including water flowing naturally on or near the surface and water whose
flow is artificially altered), waves, tidal water, overflow of a body of water, or spray from any of
these, whether or not driven by wind; or
2. Water or water-borne material, regardless of its source, below the surface of the ground,
including water which exerts pressure on or seeps or leaks through a building, sidewalk,
driveway, foundation, swimming pool, or other structure. Direct loss by fire, explosion, or theft
resulting from water damage is covered.
Conditions- includes limits
Your Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement is subject to the
following Conditions:
Please refer to the Section 2 Coverage Conditions in the Section 2 Policy Packet for conditions that apply. In
addition, the following Conditions apply:
A. Sump Pump Failure Limit of Liability.
1. This coverage does not increase the Limit of Liability that applies to covered property under
Dwelling Coverage- Homeowners, Dwelling Coverage- Condominium, Personal Property
Coverage, Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage, or Structures Away from Residence
Premises Coverage.
20312 (02-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 3
2. Under no circumstances will we pay more for any one occurrence under this endorsement than
the Limit of Liability shown on your Declarations page for Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of
Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement.
3. No Additional Coverage or Special Coverage in your Additional & Special Coverages increases
the Limit of Liability shown on your Declarations page for Basic Sump Pump Failure/Back-up of
Sewer or Drain Coverage Endorsement.
B. Moratorium Clause. We will not pay for loss occurring within the first 10 days after inception of this
endorsement. This limitation does not apply when this endorsement is part of the policy when issued as
new business or when added to replace a sump pump failure endorsement that granted greater
coverage. However, the 10 day limitation described above does apply to any increase in our Limit of
Liability for sump pump failure.
This endorsement does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this
endorsement.
20308 (00-05/19) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Child Care Endorsement
This endorsement changes your policy and includes limitations and restrictions. Please
read it carefully.
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in General Definitions in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions section of
your coverage form(s).
To confirm you have the Child Care Endorsement, please refer to your current Declarations page.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Effect of endorsement on your policy
If you have purchased the Child Care Endorsement, the changes described below apply to your policy.
Under Section 1 Coverage Exclusions in your Section 1 Policy Packet:
The following is added to exclusion F.2. Business:
This exclusion, F.2., does not apply to your child care activities described for this endorsement on
your Declarations page.
The additional exclusions below are added to F.:
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance, occupancy,
operation, use, loading or unloading of, or entrustment by an insured to any person involving:
a. Draft or saddle animals or vehicles for use therewith;
b. Motor vehicles;
c. Aircraft or hovercraft; or
d. Watercraft;
owned or operated, or hired by or for an insured in your child care activities described for this
endorsement on your Declarations page; or
Bodily injury to any employee arising out of your child care activities described for this
endorsement on your Declarations page.
With respect to the coverage provided by this endorsement, under Section 1 Coverage Conditions in your
Section 1 Policy Packet, item A. Limit of Liability is deleted and replaced with:
A. Limit of Liability
Aggregate Limit of Liability: Our total Limit of Liability in an annual policy period for the sum of damages
payable under Liability Coverage- Personal & Premises and Liability Coverage- Premises Only and
medical expense payable under Medical Payments Coverage will be an annual aggregate Limit of
Liability that corresponds to the dollar amount shown on your Declarations page for Liability Coverage-
Personal & Premises and Liability Coverage- Premises Only. This is the most we will pay regardless
of the number of occurrences, insureds, injured persons, claims made, persons liable, claimants, or
policies involved.
Sub-Limit of Liability: Subject to the annual aggregate Limit of Liability described above, our total liability
under Medical Payments Coverage for all medical expense payable for bodily injury to one person as
the result of one accident will not exceed the Limit of Liability for each person as stated on your
Declarations page for Medical Payments Coverage. This Sub-Limit of Liability does not increase the
Aggregate Limit of Liability.
20308 (00-05/19) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 2
Under Personal Property Coverage, 3. Special Limits of Liability, item h. is deleted and replaced with:
h. $2,500 on property, on the residence premises, used or intended for use in a business. This
limitation does not apply to furnishings, supplies, and equipment used in the child care business
described on your Declarations page.
Under Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage, item 2.c. does not apply to other structures used in the child care
activities described for this endorsement on your Declarations page.
This endorsement does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this
endorsement.
20314 (00-05/19) 1
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
Earthquake Endorsement
This endorsement changes your policy and includes limitations and restrictions. Please
read it carefully.
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in General Definitions in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions section of
your coverage form(s).
To confirm you have the Earthquake Endorsement and to identify the property to which the coverage applies,
please refer to your current Declarations page.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Note: To determine whether Masonry Veneer, Masonry, and/or Detached Buildings are included or excluded in
your coverage under this endorsement, refer to the chart below, the corresponding Option number on your
Declarations page for the covered property, and the specific details within this endorsement.
Option Masonry Veneer Masonry Detached Buildings
1 Excluded Excluded Excluded
2 Included Excluded Excluded
3 Included Included Excluded
4 Excluded Excluded Included
5 Included Excluded Included
6 Included Included Included
Effect of endorsement on your policy
Section 2 Coverage Exclusions in your Section 2 Policy Packet, exclusion A.2.a.i. does not apply to property
covered under this endorsement:
For the property to which your Earthquake Endorsement applies, as shown on your Declarations page,
we insure for direct physical loss to covered property caused by earthquake, including land shock waves,
lava flow, or tremors before, during, or after a volcanic eruption. One or more earthquake shocks that
occur within a seventy-two hour period constitute a single earthquake.
Under Section 2 Coverage Exclusions in your Section 2 Policy Packet, the following Special
Earthquake Exclusions are added:
a. Flood
We do not cover loss resulting directly or indirectly from flood of any nature or tidal
wave, whether:
i. Caused by;
ii. Resulting from;
iii. Contributed to by; or
iv. Aggravated by;
earthquake or volcanic eruption.
20314 (00-05/19) 2
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission.
b. Filling Land
We do not cover the cost of soil remediation or filling land.
c. Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage Exclusion
Coverage under this endorsement does not apply to Auxiliary Private Structures
Coverage. This Special Earthquake Exclusion c. does not apply to detached
buildings not otherwise excluded by Auxiliary Private Structures Coverage if you
have purchased Earthquake Option 4, 5, or 6.
d. Masonry Veneer
We do not cover loss to masonry veneer caused by earthquake. The value of masonry
veneer will be deducted before applying the earthquake deductible described below.
For the purpose of this exclusion, stucco is not considered masonry veneer. This
Special Earthquake Exclusion d. does not apply if you have purchased Earthquake
Option 2, 3, 5, or 6.
e. Masonry
We do not cover loss to masonry construction caused by earthquake. The value of the
masonry will be deducted before applying the earthquake deductible described below.
For the purpose of this exclusion, stucco is not considered masonry. This Special
Earthquake Exclusion e. does not apply if you have purchased Earthquake Option 3
or 6.
f. Fences, Driveways, and Sidewalks
Coverage under this endorsement does not apply to fences, driveways, or sidewalks.
The conditions below are added under A. of Section 2 Coverage Conditions in your Section 2 Policy
Packet.
Earthquake Deductible
The following replaces any other deductible provision in this policy with respect to loss covered by
this Earthquake Endorsement.
We will pay only that part of the total of all loss that exceeds the earthquake deductible. The
dollar amount of the earthquake deductible is determined by multiplying the Limit of Liability of the
applicable coverage shown on your Declarations page by the deductible percentage amount
shown on your Declarations page for this endorsement. This deductible applies separately to
each individual coverage at the time of loss. The total deductible amount will not be less than
$250.
Earthquake Limit of Liability
a. This coverage does not increase the limit of liability that applies to covered property.
b. Under this endorsement, the following special limit of liability will apply:
Dwelling Coverage – up to, but not more than, the Limit of Liability listed on your
Declarations page. Neither Loss Settlement Selection Form 3 nor Loss Settlement
Selection Form 4 apply to this coverage.
This endorsement does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this
endorsement.
20335 (00-11/21) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission. 1
Theft of Tools and Materials Endorsement
This endorsement changes your policy and includes limitations and restrictions. Please
read it carefully.
Reading this document
Words in italics are defined in General Definitions in the General Policy Packet or in the Definitions section of
your coverage form(s).
To confirm you have the Theft of Tools and Materials Endorsement, please refer to your current Declarations
page.
All of your policy is incorporated in this form and applies, except as expressly modified below.
Effect of endorsement on your policy
If you have purchased the Theft of Tools and Materials Endorsement, the changes described below apply to
your policy.
When listed under Additional & Special Coverages, the following is added to 2. Special Coverages:
For additional premium, we cover the theft of your tools, materials, and supplies used in construction until the
building or structure is completed and occupied. This coverage is extended to materials and supplies installed in
the building or structure, if not otherwise covered by this or any other policy.
When listed under Structures Away from Residence Premises Coverage, the following is added to What is
covered:
For additional premium, we cover the theft of your tools, materials, and supplies used in construction until the
building or structure is completed and occupied. This coverage is extended to materials and supplies installed in
the building or structure, if not otherwise covered by this or any other policy.
Your Section 2 Policy Packet is changed as follows:
Under Section 2 Coverage Exclusions, exclusion 13. Theft of Tools does not apply to your tools, materials,
and supplies covered under this endorsement.
Conditions and Limitations Applicable to this Endorsement
1. Coverage applies only while the tools, materials, and supplies are situated on an insured location.
2. Coverage is effective for 180 days beginning the first day materials to be used in the construction are
situated on an insured location.
3. Our Limit of Liability under this endorsement is the amount stated on the Declarations for your Theft of
Tools and Materials Endorsement.
4. We do not provide coverage for mysterious disappearance or inventory shortages.
5. The Policy Deductible applies to this coverage for each occurrence.
6. The premium for this endorsement will be considered fully earned.
This endorsement does not change, alter, or extend any provision of your policy except as described in this
endorsement.
Home Claim
Experience
Rating Plan
How we customize the cost of
your property insurance
Our use of claims history is subject to underwriting and
rating rules, which may vary by state and company.
Other restrictions may apply. Please contact your
representative for further information about the use of
claims history. Our use of claims history may be subject
to change without notice.
COUNTRYFinancial.com
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
COUNTRY Mutual Insurance Company®
COUNTRY Casualty Insurance Company®
Bloomington, IL 61702-2100
© 2018 CC Services, Inc
Managing your property
insurance costs
We make every effort to help you manage your
property insurance costs. Just as the deductible and
coverages you choose are important factors in
determining insurance premiums, so is your claims
history.
By managing your chance of loss, you may be able to
keep your insurance premiums lower. Some simple
changes may lower your loss probability, which can help
keep your premium costs lower. Changes like:
• Installing deadbolt locks
• Repairing a broken step
• Replacing an old roof
• Installing a back-up sump pump
How does COUNTRY Financial
determine your property
insurance costs?
Many factors are used to determine your insurance
premium.
Some of these factors include:
• The amount and types of coverage you carry
• Your deductible
• Your claims history, including the number of claims
you’ve had, the date and type of each claim
We adjust your insurance premium based on your past
claims. Past claims are a valuable predictor of future
claims.
As a result, your premium may increase if you submit a
claim on your policy. However, only certain types of
claims will affect your insurance premium.
21921 (00-05/19) 1
Not all claims affect premium.
Claims paid under the following perils and coverages
are examples of those that do not affect premium.
Perils
• Food spoilage
• Earthquake, sinkhole and mine subsidence
• Riot or civil commotion
Coverages
• Scheduled Personal Property Coverage
• Special Personal Property Increased Coverage
• Identity Theft and Advocacy Service Coverage
• Medical Payments Coverage
Please Note: Not all coverages and perils are included above. For example, weather-related claims might be considered in some states, but not others. Peril and
coverage availability may vary by state. In many states, claims may result in policy coverage changes or nonrenewal, regardless of type. To learn more about which
peril and coverage options may apply to you, contact your representative.
What type of claims affect
premium?
To determine if a claim affects your premium cost,
we consider factors including:
• type of claim, and
• when the claim occurred
We review claims with your prior insurance company
and with COUNTRY Financial. The length of time you
have been insured with us may also determine if your
claim will affect the cost of your insurance.
Some of the more common claims affecting the cost
of your insurance include:
• Fire
• Damage resulting from sump pump overflow
• Smoke
• Vandalism and Malicious Mischief
• Theft
• Water damage caused by appliances
• Liability
We want to provide you
with the customized
service you deserve.
Your representative is always happy to work
one-on-one with you to provide a plan to help
you get from where you are today to where you
want to be in the future.
We hope you enjoy many safe and claim-free
years in your home. But, should you ever have a
claim, rest assured that one of our claims
representatives will handle it quickly and fairly.
How long can a claim impact
premium?
Claims which affect the cost of your insurance can do so
for up to five years, beginning the first time your policy
renews after the claim is paid.
21921 (00-05/19) 2
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
1701 Towanda Ave.
PO Box 2100
Bloomington, IL 61702-2100
866-COUNTRY
countryfinancial.com
21916 (01-05/20)
Important Information About Damage Caused by Flooding
We want to remind you that your policy does not cover damage to your property caused by flooding. For this type
of coverage, you’ll need to obtain a flood insurance policy.
Flood insurance is available to communities and/or properties that participate in the National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP). Not all communities participate in the program. Flood insurance may still be available to you
even if you don’t live in a flood hazard area as defined by the NFIP.
If your community does not participate in the NFIP, contact your representative to determine if there is other flood
insurance coverage available to you.
The above information is a general overview. For complete coverage details, including any applicable limitations,
conditions and exclusions, please see your policy.
Thank you for choosing COUNTRY Financial for your insurance needs.
If you have questions, please contact your representative. You can also learn more about the National Flood
Insurance Program at www.floodsmart.gov or by calling (888) 379-9531.
COUNTRY Preferred Insurance Company®
Bloomington, IL